ADMR 2010Admiralty I(3)This course will survey substantive matters, including carriage of goods by sea; charter parties; personal injury and death; collision; towage, pilotage, and salvage. Admiralty I is not a prerequisite for the course in Admiralty II; however, both Admiralty I and II are required for J.D. students prior to enrollment in any other Admiralty courses that are regularly offered. Advanced Admiralty courses may not be taken by J.D. students simultaneously with either Admiralty I or II.ADMR 2020Admiralty II(3)This course deals mostly with jurisdictional and procedural matters, including jurisdiction over maritime claims, considerations of federalism, forum non conveniens, choice of law, special procedures in admiralty cases, limitation of liability, and maritime liens. Admiralty II may be taken prior to Admiralty I. Both courses must be taken by J.D. students as prerequisites to any other regularly offered admiralty courses.ADMR 6000Admiralty Seminar(2-3)The Seminar will have one or more common themes to be selected by the class with some suggestions from the professor. Two possible themes are: (1) the shipping industry’s decarbonization efforts and (2) the problem of abandoned seafarers and mistreatment of seafarers, particularly in the fishing industry. Students attending the first class should have given some thought as to what they would like to see the Seminar cover. Admiralty I is a prerequisite. This seminar may be taken to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement.Prerequisite(s):ADMR 2010.ADMR 6080Carriage of Goods By Sea(2)This course involves the legal problems arising out of damage to cargoes transported between the United States and foreign ports and focusing on the Carriage of Goods by Sea and Harter Acts, as well as under the Rotterdam Rules. There is an emphasis placed on the actual practice of maritime law. Students must participate in an ungraded mock cargo negotiation. Admiralty I and II are prerequisites. The course is taught by Raymond Waid who is a Shareholder in the New Orleans office of Liskow & Lewis, APLC.Prerequisite(s):ADMR 2010and2020.ADMR 6220Personal Injury & Death(2)An advanced course in admiralty law concentrating on rights and liabilities arising out of the personal injury and death of seamen, longshoremen, harbor-workers, and third parties under both federal and state law. Admiralty I an II are prerequisites. The course is taught by Stevan Dittman, Of Counsel with the firm of Gainsburgh, Benjamin, David, Meunier & Warshauer, L.L.C.ADMR 6350Collision Law & Limit of Liab(3)This course presents the general principles of maritime collision law, including causation, legal presumptions, the effect of statutory violations, apportionment of fault, damages, special evidentiary rules and an overview of navigation Rules of the Road and their interpretation. This course then provides an in-depth study of limitation of liability from a practical point of view. After study of the theory of limitation of liability, the assertion of this right will be considered in detail, as well as the content of the limitation fund and how it is distributed. J.D. students must have taken Admiralty I and II. Enrollment in the course is limited to 35 students. This course is taught by Jake Rodriguez and Michael Harowski, who are partners in the Wilson Elser firm.Prerequisite(s):minimum score of PASS in 'Law Graduate Student' orADMR 2010.ADMR 6430Marine Insurance I(2)An advanced admiralty course that focuses on the legal problems involved in insurance against physical loss or damage to maritime property (hull and cargo), against maritime liabilities (protection and indemnity), and for damage to cargo. J.D. students must have taken Admiralty I and II. 3L students must write the exam, but LLM candidates may write an advanced level paper if they so choose. This course will be taught by Brandon Thibodeaux, an associate with Frilot LLC.ADMR 6440Marine Insurance II(2)Marine Insurance II is an advanced admiralty course that focuses on the legal problems arising out of marine insurance policies. The course examines hull, cargo, P&I, commercial marine property and liability policies including the liability of agents, brokers, and underwriters, the effect of the insolvency of an insurance company, excess and surplus lines coverage, the duty of defend, reinsurance, and current problems in the law of marine insurance coverage. Admiralty I and II are prerequisites. The course is taught by Richard Cozad who is a Partner at Schouest, Bamdas, Soshea & BenMaier P.L.L.C.Prerequisite(s):ADMR 2010and2020.ADMR 6540Personal Injury & Death(2)An advanced course in admiralty law concentrating on rights and liabilities arising out of the personal injury and death of seamen, longshoremen, harbor-workers, and third parties under both federal and state law. J.D. students must have taken Admiralty I and II. The course is taught by Stevan Dittman, Of Counsel with the firm of Gainsburgh, Benjamin, David, Meunier & Warshauer, L.L.C.Prerequisite(s):ADMR 2010and2020.ADMR 6730Regulation of Shipping(2)This survey course addresses the regulation of domestic shipping and foreign shipping calling at United States ports. Primary emphasis is on the various governmental agencies that regulate shipping and maritime commerce with secondary emphasis on the role of international treaties and conventions. Specifically examined are the activities of agencies such as the Coast Guard, the Army Corps of Engineers, The Federal Maritime Commission, the Maritime Administration, the National Transportation Safety Board and various state agencies. Areas addressed include vessel inspections, pollution regulation, navigation rules, marine casualty investigations, vessel and waterfront facility security, merchant mariner licensing and license revocation, pilotage and ocean shipping regulation. This course is taught by Brian K. McNamara, a Commander and judge advocate with the United States Coast Guard. J.D. Students must have taken Adm. I and II. (2)ADMR 6800Towage & Offshore Services(2)Tugboats, barges, offshore support vessels, and offshore petroleum and renewable energy installations like offshore wind farms provide crucial services in today’s global economy, all of which impact towage and offshore services in the admiralty context. This course examines the history, development, and current state of laws – some familiar, some quite specialized – that apply in the context of towage and offshore services. Both casualties and contracts are studied. The course focus is on U.S. law, but the laws of other countries like the U.K. are compared and contrasted when relevant, and internationally recognized contract forms are analyzed. Admiralty I and II are prerequisites. This course is taught by David B. Sharpe who is a Partner at Lugenbuhl, Wheaton, Peck, Rankin & Hubbard.Prerequisite(s):ADMR 2010and2020.ADMR 6880Admiralty: Vessel Documentation & Finance(2)Students in this course work with materials concerning the documentation of vessels and financing from initial decision to construct to permanent financing. A knowledge of maritime law, commercial law and security rights is recommended. The course is conceived of as a practical course, with emphasis on the financial decisions of vessel operators and financiers. Attention is also given to maritime insurance issues affecting financiers. Admiralty I and II are prerequisites.Prerequisite(s):ADMR 2010and2020.