CENG 1005Intro Electronics with Lab(3)Introductory course designed for high school students enrolled in the TSSP summer program.CENG 1100Innovations in Chem Eng w/ Lab(3)This course will introduce students to the basic concepts and calculations in the field of chemical engineering.  In addition to lectures, students will gain hands-on experience utilizing modern techniques and exposure to real-world applications through labs and activities.  This course is limited to high school students.CENG 1180Impacts in Chem Engineering(1)This course will connect core chemical engineering concepts to real-world applications- showcasing the global impact that chemical engineers have on our planet and the grand challenges that they are working to address. Topics include energy generation and renewability, advances in medicine, large-scale food production, revolutionary materials, and pollution prevention and sustainability. Students will learn through relevant readings, discussions, tours of local businesses, hands-on projects, and guest lectures from leaders in the field.  Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1070.Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1070.CENG 1890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 1940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 1000 level. Departmental approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99CENG 2110Matl & Energy Balances(3)Basic concepts in mass and energy balances are presented in this introduction to chemical process engineering. Properties of pure materials and relevant equations of state are reviewed in illustrative examples.Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1080and (MATH 1220or1310).CENG 2120Thermodynamics I(3)Concepts of energy, equilibrium, and reversibility are presented in the setting of the theoretical development of classical thermodynamics. Energy conversion cycles and elementary fluid mechanics are used to illustrate applied thermodynamics in chemical process technology.
Prerequisites:CENG 2110*,MATH 2210*,CHEM 1070, andPHYS 1310. *May be taken concurrently. Optional co-requisite:CENG 2320.Prerequisite(s):MATH 2210*,CENG 2110*,CHEM 1070andPHYS 1310.*May be taken concurrently.CENG 2230Prof Dev for Chem Engr(3)This course is designed for students who wish to enhance the soft skills necessary for life-long success as a professional engineer. Topics include effective written and oral communication, resume building, networking, employment search strategies, the interview process, teamwork and critical thinking. Learning will be reinforced through practical activities including a mock interview, a staged networking event and oral presentations with class discussion and feedback.CENG 2320Transport I: Fluids(3)Principles of hydrostatics and fluid mechanics. Emphasis is on mass, energy and momentum balances. Fluid flow through pipes and other types of chemical engineering equipment are considered in detail. The fundamental operations of vector analysis and the development of basic differential equations that govern fluid flow are used to solve representative problems in which viscosity is important. Prerequisites:CENG 2120* andMATH 2240* 
*May be taken concurrently.Prerequisite(s):MATH 2240*andCENG 2120*.*May be taken concurrently.CENG 2500Intro To Biotechnology(3)This course begins with an introduction to physical and biological properties of cells through cell and molecular biology teachings, and then expands with the application of these principles to the realm of biotechnology. Theory and practice of specific laboratory techniques will be covered and demonstrated, and typical data sets will be interpreted. Applications of biotechnology in the business and medical communities will be discussed.CENG 2505Intro Biotech Lab(1)This course is designed to introduce students to essential laboratory skills and modern techniques utilized in the field of biotechnology. These include aseptic technique, microbial and mammalian cell culturing, flow cytometry, and engineering and analysis of genes in E. coli.  Laboratory notebook maintenance, executing protocols, analyzing data and teamwork are emphasized. This course is intended for students without any prior research experience.  

Corequisite(s):CENG 2500.Corequisite(s):CENG 2500.CENG 2780Special Topics(1-3)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.

Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1070.Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1070.Maximum Hours:99CENG 2890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 2940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 2000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99CENG 3020Chem & Eng Sci in Community(1)This course satisfies the university's public-service requirement. Topics include public outreach, application of engineering principles to community issues, and educating the community on scientific and engineering issues.CENG 3110Thermodynamics II(3)Basic concepts in physical and chemical equilibria. Systems of variable composition. Chemical reaction equilibria. Thermodynamic analysis of processes. Principles of statistical mechanics. Partition functions.
Prerequisite(s):CENG 2120and CENG 1080Prerequisite(s):CENG 2120andCHEM 1080.CENG 3120Materials Science & Engr(3)The structure and properties of engineering materials are considered. Coverage includes basic atomic and microscopic structure, testing methods, phase relationships, and strengthening techniques. Emphasis is placed on common industrial materials. Thermodynamics and kinetics aspects of material science are discussed. Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1080andPHYS 1320.Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1080andPHYS 1320.CENG 3230Numr Meth For Chem Eng(3)Numerical solution of linear and nonlinear algebraic equations, and ordinary and partial differential equations. Numerical differentiation and integration. Linear and nonlinear regression analysis. Optimization methods. Applications to chemical and biomolecular engineering design-oriented problems. Excel spreadsheets are used for all computations. An introduction to Visual Basic for Applications programming is included. All applications and homework problems are related to Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. A brief introduction to MatLab is included.
Prerequisite(s):MATH 2240.Prerequisite(s):MATH 2240.CENG 3240Unit Operations Lab(4)Bench scale laboratory experiments in Unit Operations. Report writing, safety, oral presentations, ethics and group activities are emphasized.
Prerequisite(s):CENG 3110and3390.Prerequisite(s):CENG 3110and3390.CENG 3340Separation Processes(3)The analysis and design of mass-transfer based separation processes. Fundamental concepts are derived and applied to representative industrial process configurations. Subject area coverage includes the fundamentals of mass transfer, as well as the design of countercurrent operations such as gas-liquid absorption, distillation, liquid-liquid extraction and leaching.
Prerequisite(s):CENG 3390.Prerequisite(s):CENG 3390.CENG 3390Transport II: Heat and Mass(3)The analysis of problems in conductive, convective, and radiative heat transfer. The formulation and solution of heat and mass transfer problems by means of shell balances. Exact and numerical solutions to heat and mass transfer problems. Correlations for convective heat transfer. Analogies between heat and mass transfer. The application of basic principles of heat/mass transfer to heat exchange, evaporation, condensation, boiling and drying operations.
Prerequisite(s):CENG 2320andMATH 2240*.
* May be taken concurrently.Prerequisite(s):CENG 2320andMATH 2240*.*May be taken concurrently.CENG 3420Transport in Cells & Organs(3)Fundamental principles of fluid mechanics and mass transport will be applied to biological systems at the cellular, tissue, and organ levels.  The topics of this course will be the cardiovascular and respiratory systems, transmembrane and transvascular transport, cell adhesion and intracellular transport, drug transport and pharmacokinetics, and transport-related diseases (atherosclerosis, sickle cell disease, embolism, cancer metastasis).CENG 3890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 3940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 3000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99CENG 4130Surf. & Colloid Phenomen(3)A study of surface and colloid chemistry. Topics include characterization of particles and surfaces, stability of colloidal systems, interactions of charged particles, and electrokinetic phenomena.
Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1080andPHYS 1320.Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1080andPHYS 1320.CENG 4140Electrochemistry(3)This course will cover the fundamentals of electrochemistry followed by more detailed consideration of the thermodynamics and kinetics involved in electrochemical deposition processes. Faradaic and non-faradaic processes at electrode/electrolyte interfaces will be covered in addition to electrochemical methods used to characterize such interfaces. The course will include reviewing research papers followed by class discussions. Towards the end of the course, the use of electrochemistry in sensor applications will be covered. The graduate equivalent of this course isCENG 6140.Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1080,PHYS 1320andMATH 2210.CENG 4150Reactor Design(3)The design and analysis of chemical, biological, and polymerization reactor systems are achieved by application of the principles of chemical kinetics and equilibrium coupled with mass and energy transport. Specific areas of study include kinetics, ideal reactors, multiple reactor systems, nonideal flow and mixing, and catalysis.
Prerequisite(s):MATH 2240andCENG 2120.Prerequisite(s):MATH 2240andCENG 2120.CENG 4160Heterogeneous Catalysis(3)A study of the fundamental concepts underlying catalytic processes in the petroleum processing industry and in synthetic fuels research. Topics include molecular theories of adsorption and catalysis, catalyst design and formulation, instrumental methods of catalyst characterization, transport in catalysts, shape-selective catalysis, etc. Applications discussed include catalytic cracking, reforming, hydrodesulfurization, Fischer-Tropsch synthesis, direct and indirect coal liquefaction, etc.CENG 4310Chemical Process Design(3)The elements of industrial design and supporting economics are presented in the context of a representative design project. Extension of the student's early background in unit operations through practical design considerations including materials of construction is accomplished. Methods are presented for capital and operating cost estimation, raw materials and utilities pricing, and assembly of investment costs, taxes, environmental and other site requirements. Realistic design constraints are included; e.g., economic factors, safety, reliability aesthetics, ethics, and social impact.
Prerequisite(s):CENG 4150.Prerequisite(s):CENG 4150.CENG 4400Intro. To Gene Therapy(3)A survey into the fundamental aspects of gene delivery and their application to gene therapy. Topics include various gene carriers, carrier/DNA interaction and complex formation, complex interactions with cells and cell structures, targeting, gene therapy applications, host response. A knowledge of cell and molecular biology is not required.CENG 4420Survey Contemporary Poly Rsh(3)CENG 4450Applied Biochemistry I(3)Biochemistry is the study of the chemistry and chemical processes involved with the molecules that are utilized by living organisms. This two-semester series will provide an in-depth coverage of carbon- and nitrogen-containing molecules such as proteins and DNA and certain cofactors. In the first semester enzyme kinetics and catalysis will be covered, along with carbohydrates and their metabolism. The metabolic pathways and associated bioenergetics of glycolysis and the TCA cycle will be examined in detail. The material will be related to everyday life, diet, nutrition, and exercise performance.
Prerequisite(s):CHEM 2420.Prerequisite(s):CHEM 2420or2440.CENG 4460Applied Biochemistry II(3)This course is a continuation ofCENG 4450(please refer to the related course description). Principles taught inCENG 4450will be extended as they are applied to lipids and nitrogen-containing molecules, and the metabolism of each. Example molecules include fats, triglycerides, DNA, amino acids, heme, and urea. The interplay of biochemistry and molecular biology will also be examined.
Prerequisite(s):CENG 4450.Prerequisite(s):CENG 4450.CENG 4500Chemical Process Control(3)An introduction to linear control theory is presented in which processes are described mathematically through transfer functions and flow diagrams.  Laplace transforms are used on state space models to allow for description of control systems in algebraic ways.  On/off controllers are introduced, and conventional three-mode (PID) controllers are specified.  Other topics include feedback, feed-forward, closed-loop, and open-loop systems, damping and stability, plus low-order, higher-order, and nonlinear systems.Prerequisite(s):CENG 2120andMATH 2240.CENG 4650Synthetic Biology and Genetic Engineering(3)Introduces the basics of synthetic biology and genetic engineering for biotechnological and health applications. Focuses on synthetic biology and genetic engineering techniques and methods in bacterial and mammalian systems within the context of an engineering-driven approach for reprogramming existing, and constructing new, biological systems via the design-build-test-learn paradigm. Topics include DNA synthesis, DNA recombineering, CRISPR/Cas methods and techniques, modular genetic parts, next generation DNA sequencing, and metabolic engineering. The course will comprise lectures, reading and discussion of primary and secondary literature, and a written project.Prerequisite(s):CENG 4450,4460,CHEM 3830orCELL 3030.CENG 4710Biochemical Engineering(3)An advanced course in biochemical engineering. Topics include enzyme catalyzed and cell-associated reactions, engineering aspects of recombinant DNA technology, cell culture, bioreactors and tissue engineering.CENG 4750Practice School(6)Students are placed in groups of three or four and are assigned to a project at a local industrial facility, hospital, or government agency. The project is one of current concern to the organization and may range from a study of an operating process to the development of a new process. The projects are open ended and the students are expected to apply the principles of good design practice involving realistic constraints such as economics, safety, reliability, aesthetics, ethics, and social impact. Students normally are assigned to a project which fulfils certain career goals. This internship, under the direction of a faculty member, utilizes engineers and other personnel at the host site. Students are required to submit interim and final written and oral reports.
Prerequisite(s):CENG 3240,3340and4150*.
* May be taken concurrently.Prerequisite(s):CENG 3240,3340and4150*.*May be taken concurrently.CENG 4760Energy and Sustainability(3)This class will provide an introduction to current energy production technologies, as well as an introduction to potential alternative technologies being touted. Both categories of technologies will be analyzed and assessed through a variety of Chemical Engineering principles. The goal of the course is to provide students with a foundational framework for meaningfully evaluating current and proposed routes for energy production and their implications.CENG 4770Advances In Biotechnolog(3)The objectives of the course are to enhance understanding of the basic principles of biotechnology and to introduce the most current biotechnology research. Topics include gene therapy, microbial pesticides, genetically engineered food, stem-cell technology and tissue engineering.CENG 4780Special Topics(3)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 4781Special Topics(3)CENG 4810Independent Study(2-4)Under special circumstances, course credit is granted to students undertaking independent research studies. A project adviser should be identified and permission for enrollment filed with the department chair prior to registration.CENG 4820Independent Study(2-4)Under special circumstances, course credit is granted to students undertaking independent research studies. A project adviser should be identified and permission for enrollment filed with the department chair prior to registration.CENG 4870Biomolecular & Cellular Engr(3)Introduction to genetic and environmental manipulation of cells for production of proteins and other bioproducts. Topics include biomolecular interactions (protein energetics, binding equilibria, association kinetics), protein aggregation, cloning and gene expression in different host systems, posttranslational processing, and protein engineering. Will include case studies class discussions of primary literature
Prerequisite(s):CENG 2500,4450orGBCH 6010.Prerequisite(s):CENG 2500,4450orGBCH 6010.CENG 4890Polymer Engr & Science(3)Fundamentals of polymer science and engineering, including synthesis, characterization, properties and processing of polymeric materials. An overview of polymer structure, including classification, tacticity, conformation and configuration will be given. Synthetic techniques will be reviewed, including addition and condensation polymerization and copolymerization. Polymer thermodynamics will be described, including an introduction to Flory-Huggins theory, as well as polymer-polymer miscibility and blends. A brief overview of characterization will be given, including molecular weight and glass transition temperature determination. Properties will be discussed, including mechanical properties of semi-crystalline polymers and elastomers. The time-temperature superposition principle will be described, as well as a brief introduction to processing techniques. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 4891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 4910Independent Study(1-3)Under special circumstances, course credit is granted to students undertaking independent research studies. A project adviser should be identified and permission for enrollment filed with the department chair prior to registration. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 4920Independent Study(1-4)Under special circumstances, course credit is granted to students undertaking independent research studies. A project adviser should be identified and permission for enrollment filed with the department chair prior to registration. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 4930Independent Studies(1-3)CENG 4940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 4000 level. Departmental approval required.Maximum Hours:99CENG 4990Honors Thesis(3)Honors thesis research, first semester. Register in department.CENG 5000Honors Thesis(4)Honors thesis research, second semester. Register in department.CENG 5380Study Abroad(1-20)Courses taught abroad by non-Tulane faculty. Does not count toward Tulane GPA. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 5390Study Abroad(1-20)Courses taught abroad by non-Tulane faculty. Does not count toward Tulane GPA. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 6000Chemical Eng. Seminar(0)Students are exposed to the important research findings, presented by invited speakers as well as by professors and advanced PhD candidates of our own department.CENG 6010Math Meth For Engineers(3)Review of calculus and ordinary differential equations, series solutions and special functions, complex variables, partial differential equations, and integral transforms.CENG 6130Surf. & Colloid Phenomen(3)A study of surface and colloid chemistry. Topics include characterization of particles and surfaces, stability of colloidal systems, interactions of charged particles, and electrokinetic phenomena.CENG 6140Electrochemistry(3)This course will cover the fundamentals of electrochemistry followed by more detailed consideration of the thermodynamics and kinetics involved in electrochemical deposition processes. Faradaic and non-faradaic processes at electrode/electrolyte interfaces will be covered in addition to electrochemical methods used to characterize such interfaces. The course will include reviewing research papers followed by class discussions. Towards the end of the course, the use of electrochemistry in sensor applications will be covered. The undergraduate equivalent of this course isCENG 4140.Prerequisite(s):CHEM 1080,PHYS 1320andMATH 2210.CENG 6150Reactor Design(3)The design and analysis of chemical, biological, and polymerization reactor systems are achieved by application of the principles of chemical kinetics and equilibrium coupled with mass and energy transport. Specific areas of study include kinetics, idealCENG 6160Heterogeneous Catalysis(3,4)A study of the fundamental concepts underlying catalytic processes in the petroleum processing industry and in synthetic fuels research. Topics include molecular theories of adsorption and catalysis, catalyst design and formulation, instrumental methods of catalyst characterization, transport in catalysts, shape-selective catalysis, etc. Applications discussed include catalytic cracking, reforming, hydrodesulfurization, Fischer-Tropsch synthesis, direct and indirect coal liquefaction, etc.CENG 6210Molec Biophysics & Polymer Phy(3)An introduction to the physics of polymers and the physical bases underlying the biofunctionality of macromolecules in living systems. Themes of molecular self-organization, conformation, complementarity, and information content are emphasized and relatedCENG 6390Transport Phenomena II(3)The analysis of problems in conductive, convective, and radiative heat transfer. The formulation and solution of heat and mass transfer problems by means of shell balances. Exact and numerical solutions to heat and mass transfer problems. Correlations forCENG 6400Intro. To Gene Therapy(3)A survey into the fundamental aspects of gene delivery and their application to gene therapy. Topics include various gene carriers, carrier/DNA interaction and complex formation, complex interactions with cells and cell structures, targeting, gene therapy applications, host response. A knowledge of cell and molecular biology is not required.CENG 6420Survey Contemp Polymers Rsh(3)Fundamentals of condensed matter are elaborated upon, namely bonding, structure, physical properties, phase equilibria and thermodynamics of solids. Characterization of condensed phases as it reviewed. Manipulation of material properties for specific applications is discussed.CENG 6450Applied Biochemistry I(3)Biochemistry is the study of the chemistry and chemical processes involved with the molecules that are utilized by living organisms. This two-semester series will provide an in-depth coverage of carbon- and nitrogen-containing molecules such as proteins and DNA and certain cofactors. In the first semester enzyme kinetics and catalysis will be covered, along with carbohydrates and their metabolism. The metabolic pathways and associated bioenergetics of glycolysis and the TCA cycle will be examined in detail. The material will be related to everyday life, diet, nutrition, and exercise performance.CENG 6460Applied Biochemistry II(3)This course is a continuation ofCENG 6450(please refer to the related course description). Principles taught inCENG 6450will be extended as they are applied to lipids and nitrogen-containing molecules, and the metabolism of each. Example molecules include fats, triglycerides, DNA, amino acids, heme, and urea. The interplay of biochemistry and molecular biology will also be examined.CENG 6650Synthetic Biology and Genetic Engineering(3)Introduces the basics of synthetic biology and genetic engineering for biotechnological and health applications. Focuses on synthetic biology and genetic engineering techniques and methods in bacterial and mammalian systems within the context of an engineering-driven approach for reprogramming existing, and constructing new, biological systems via the design-build-test-learn paradigm.Topics include DNA synthesis, DNA recombineering, CRISPR/Cas methods and techniques, modular genetic parts, next generation DNA sequencing, protein engineering, and metabolic engineering.The course will comprise lectures, reading and discussion of primary and secondary literature, and a written project.Prerequisite(s):CENG 4450,4460,CHEM 3830orCELL 3030.CENG 6710Biochemical Engineering(3)An advanced course in biochemical engineering. Topics include enzyme catalyzed and cell-associated reactions, engineering aspects of recombinant DNA technology, cell culture, bioreactors and tissue engineering.CENG 6720Nanostructured Materials(3)An introductory graduate course on nanoscale materials focusing on soft materials. The course will emphasize fundamentals.CENG 6760Energy and Sustainability(3)This class will provide an introduction to current energy production technologies, as well as an introduction to potential alternative technologies being touted.  Both categories of technologies will be analyzed and assessed through a variety of Chemical Engineering principles.  The goal of the course is to provide students with a foundational framework for meaningfully evaluating current and proposed routes for energy production and their implications.CENG 6770Advances In Biotechnolog(3)The objectives of the course are to enhance understanding of the basic principles of biotechnology and to introduce the most current biotechnology research. Topics include gene therapy, microbial pesticides, genetically engineered food, stem-cell technology and tissue engineering.CENG 6780Special Topics(3)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 6781Special Topics(3)CENG 6800Special Topics(1-3)CENG 6860Readings and Research(2-4)CENG 6870Biomolecular & Cellular Engr(3)Introduction to genetic and environmental manipulation of cells for production of proteins and other bioproducts. Topics include biomolecular interactions (protein energetics, binding equilibria, association kinetics), protein aggregation, cloning and gene expression in different host systems, posttranslational processing, and protein engineering. Will include case studies class discussions of primary literature.
Prerequisite(s):CENG 2500.Prerequisite(s):CENG 2500.CENG 6890Polymer Engr & Science(3)Fundamentals of polymer science and engineering, including synthesis, characterization, properties and processing of polymeric materials. An overview of polymer structure, including classification, tacticity, conformation and configuration will be given. Synthetic techniques will be reviewed, including addition and condensation polymerization and copolymerization. Polymer thermodynamics will be described, including an introduction to Flory-Huggins theory, as well as polymer-polymer miscibility and blends. A brief overview of characterization will be given, including molecular weight and glass transition temperature determination. Properties will be discussed, including mechanical properties of semi-crystalline polymers and elastomers. The time-temperature superposition principle will be described, as well as a brief introduction to processing techniques. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 6940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 6000 level. Departmental approval required.Maximum Hours:99CENG 7010Graduate Mentoring Seminar I(1)The graduate mentoring seminar will provide students an opportunity to improve their communication skills, develop a basic appreciation of the science of learning, and engage with faculty on a variety of professional development topics.  Class Hours: (Lecture 1)CENG 7020Graduate Mentoring Seminar II(1)The graduate mentoring seminar will provide students an opportunity to improve their presentation skills, provide basics in lab safety, and engage with faculty on a variety of professional development topics.  Class Hours: (Lecture 1)CENG 7110Modern Thermodynamics(3)CENG 7120Thermo of Macromolecules(3)Thermodynamics is applied to macromolecules. Fundamentals of the thermodynamics of polymers in solution and in the melt. Topics of polymer self-assembly, polymer-surfactant interactions, and polymer nanocomposites are incorporated in the course. Students will learn methods of characterization of polymer thermodynamics using spectroscopy, microscopy and scattering techniques.CENG 7150Advanced Reactor Design(3)Coupled reaction and transport phenomena as they are involved in major reactor configurations are studied with attention to data resources and computational capabilities.CENG 7320Advanced Transport Phenomena(3)CENG 7520Applied Statistical Mech(3)The course covers the fundamental principles and methods of statistical mechanics. Emphasis is placed on applications to thermodynamics, phase behavior, polymer science and self-assembly phenomena.CENG 7780Special Topics(3)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 7810Adv Independent Research(1-9)Research studies performed under faculty tutelage by prior arrangement. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 7820Adv Independent Research(1-9)Research studies performed under faculty tutelage by prior arrangement. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 7870Special Topics(3)CENG 7910Research Orientation(1)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 7920Research Methods(1)CENG 7940MA Research Orient & Methods(3)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 8910Doctoral Research Seminar(3)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 8920Doctoral Research Seminar(3)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 9980Master's Research(3)Research toward completion of a masters degree. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99CENG 9990Dissertation Research(3)Research toward completion of a doctoral degree. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99