DANC 1470Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework.Maximum Hours:99DANC 1510Dance Composition I(3)An introduction to dance composition with an emphasis on spatial design, sources of movement, viewing choreography, and the basic elements of space, time, shape, and motion. Course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2DANC 1810Tap Dance I(2)A beginning course in tap introducing basic rhythmic movement skills necessary for various tap styles. Course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2DANC 1910African Dance I(2)Introduction to basic technique and African ethnic dance forms including three traditional dances. Course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2DANC 1920Brazilian Dance(2)Introduction to Brazilian dance, focusing especially on samba, the overview of history and cultural context. Course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2DANC 1930Ballet I(2)An introduction to classical ballet. Basic theory and techniques of classical ballet as well as the appreciation of the art form. Course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2DANC 1940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Maximum Hours:99DANC 1950Jazz Dance I(2)An introductory course to the basic foundations of jazz dance, emphasizing body placement, isolations, and rhythmic qualities of jazz.  Course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2DANC 1970Contemporary Dance I(2)Introduction to contemporary dance technique, with emphasis on alignment and basic elements of space, shape, time, and motion. Includes theory and application of dance as an art form. Course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2DANC 2000Movement Optimums Vital to Embodiment-MOVE(3)An introductory movement class designed to provide beginning level students with an embodiment of mind/body/movement skills associated with the concept of movement literacy. Activities: movement sessions, improvisational activities, meaningful reflection and analysis of body language used as experiences in moving/thinking that progress toward a confident person moving with physical intelligence through life.DANC 2010Performance I(3)A structured and at times spontaneous exploration of space, time, shape, sound, scenario, motion, and expenditure of energy to the end of attracting and holding the attention of the audience.DANC 2020Performance II(3)DANC 2050Embodied Writing(3)Embodied Writing: This introductory course activates the body and movement to fine tune and discover creative writing modalities. Movement will be the nexus (the connective tissue) agent to discover tools to support existing writing strategies and new ways of writing. Dancers and non-dance majors are welcome.DANC 2210Intro. To Dance- Ballet(3)An introduction to classical ballet including beginning ballet technique and an overview of ballet history from its inception to the present day.DANC 2220Intro. To Dance- Modern(3)An introduction to modern dance including beginning modern dance technique and an overview of modern dance history from its inception to the present day.DANC 2230Intro. To Dance- Jazz(3)An introductory course for students who seek information regarding the different aspects of the dance world, including different genres (ballet, modern, jazz, and world dance). Special emphasis is given to the role of American Vernacular dance - jazz dance and its identity in the dance scene of America.DANC 2500Yoga: Fundamentals and Beyond(2)This course offers an exploration of several aspects of yoga, including the physical practice, breathing techniques, yoga philosophy and meditation. This class is open to students of all levels and we will start with fundamentals and progress into a more vigorous, vinyasa style yoga class. We will use the breath to flow through sequences of yoga postures, including sun salutations, standing asanas, balancing asanas, arm balances, back bends, and inversions. Delving into yoga philosophy and meditation, in class and through outside assignments, will provide students with tools for cultivating mindfulness.Course Limit:3DANC 2520Dance Composition II(3)Continuation ofDANC 2010.
Prerequisite(s):DANC 2010orTHEA 2010.Prerequisite(s):DANC 2010orTHEA 2010.DANC 2810Tap Dance II(2)Continuation of Tap I. Course may be repeated 4 times for credit.Course Limit:4DANC 2910African Dance II(2)Continuation of the development of African dance skills with emphasis on understanding and demonstrating basic components necessary to choreograph traditional African dance movements. Course may be repeated 4 times for credit.Course Limit:4DANC 2930Ballet II(2)Continuation of 1930. Course may be repeated 4 times for credit.Course Limit:4DANC 2940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 2000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99DANC 2950Jazz Dance II(2)A continuation of the development of movement skills with emphasis on alignment and expanded jazz dance vocabulary. Course may be repeated 4 times for credit.Course Limit:4DANC 2960Hip-Hop Dance(2)Continuation of the development of movement skills with emphasis on hip-hop jazz vocabulary and performance. May be taken for credit four times.Course Limit:4DANC 2970Contemporary Dance II(2)This 2-credit class offers a continuation of the development of contemporary dance skills with emphasis on coordination, body awareness, alignment and an expanded movement vocabulary. This is a studio course, but includes some aspects of theory, history, and appreciation of modern and contemporary dance.  Course may be repeated 4 times for credit.Course Limit:4DANC 3240US/Caribe Social Dance(3)This course will study, compare selected social and vernacular dances from early American vernacular jazz dance and selected Afro-Caribbean dance idioms: Coursework includes assigned reading, lecture, research, videotape viewing and studio dancing.DANC 3330Pedagogy(3)A seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for dance students to acquire skills in dance teaching methodologies and strategies. Topics include organization of subject matter, weekly and unit lesson planning, development of assessments, utilization of information technology for instruction, working with diverse populations of students. Activities include observation in college classrooms (shadowing), seminars and conferences with teachers in field, in-class/micro/peer teaching, and 50 hours of field work including observation and consultation with dance field professor and field-experience teaching of assistant teaching at NOPS in discipline-based or curriculum-based programs.
Prerequisite(s):DANC 2010,2520and3520.Prerequisite(s):DANC 2010,2520and3520.DANC 3520Dance Composition III(3)An in-depth study of dance composition with an emphasis on choreographic design and dynamics, creating new movement materials, working with music, and choreographing complete solo works.
Prerequisite(s): DANC 1520 or2520.Prerequisite(s):DANC 1520 or2520.DANC 3550Laban Movement Studies(3)Laban Movement Analysis (LMA), developed by Rudolph Laban, is a theoretical framework and language for describing movement through movement experiences, observations and theoretical discussions. It is a system of observing, analyzing, and synthesizing patterns of movement within the context of the actions. The goal of LMA is to be fully embodied, to access maximum movement potential, to find authentic movement, and to integrate the body and mind in the study of effort, shape, and space.DANC 3700Dance Movement Science(3)Dance Movement Science is an introduction to the field of Dance Science. This course will explore various somatic practices and benefits of cross-training. Additionally students will learn anatomy, anatomical analysis, conditioning principals and develop applicable skills that they may apply to their studio practice and dance performance.DANC 3710Conditioning for Dance(3)In this course you will learn the principles of conditioning and how to use them to train, maintain and care for your body, the instrument of the art of dance. You will also build physical capacities to improve your dance performance and reduce injury. Additionally, students will be introduced to various somatic practices that support their studio work.DANC 3800Modern Dance III(2)This 2-credit class offers a continuation of the development of contemporary dance skills with emphasis on coordination, body awareness, alignment and an expanded movement vocabulary. This is a studio course, but includes some aspects of theory, history, and appreciation of modern and contemporary dance. Can be repeated for credit.Course Limit:6DANC 3810Tap Dance III(2)An intermediate course in tap dance with emphasis on alignment and rhythmic skills.
Course may be repeated 6 times for credit.Course Limit:6DANC 3820Ballet III(2)Continuation of the development of classical ballet technique with emphasis on alignment and expanded movement vocabulary. Includes theory of ballet and appreciation of ballet as an art form. Class meets 2 times per week.  Course may be repeated 6 times for credit.Course Limit:6DANC 3830Intensive Contemporary Dance III(3)This 2-credit class offers a continuation of the development contemporary dance skills with emphasis on coordination, body awareness, alignment and an expanded movement vocabulary. This is a studio course, but includes some aspects of theory, history, and appreciation of modern and contemporary dance.Course Limit:6DANC 3840Intensive Ballet III(3)Continuation of the development of classical ballet technique with emphasis on alignment and expanded movement vocabulary. Includes theory of ballet and appreciation of ballet as an art form. Course meets 4 days per week.
Course may be repeated 6 times for credit.Course Limit:6DANC 3890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit croquets course.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99DANC 3940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 3000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99DANC 3950Jazz Dance III(2)A study of jazz dance at the intermediate level, including warm-ups, isolations, and locomotor movements specific to the jazz dance style. Historical developments of jazz and musical theatre dance are emphasized.
Course may be repeated 6 times for credit.Course Limit:6DANC 3960Jazz: Newc Sum Danc Fest(2)The New Orleans Jazz Project: Newcomb College Summer Dance Festival is presented for two weeks annually in June offering an intensive schedule of technique classes in jazz, African, musical theatre, tap, hip hop, and modern dance forms, with repertory classes which culminates in performance by the participants. Lecture-demonstration projects, special lectures, and professional performances complete programming for evening events. Final decision on placement of students in technique and repertory classes will be determined by the faculty at the beginning of the workshop.
Course may be repeated 6 times for credit.
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Course Limit:6Maximum Hours:99DANC 3990Dance Performance Pract(1)Practical performing experience in dance. Required for the dance minor.
Course may be repeated 6 times for credit.Course Limit:6DANC 4520Dance Composition IV(3)A continuation ofDANC 3520with emphasis on group forms, sound sources for dance and development of fully designed dance pieces.DANC 4560Internship Studies(1-3)An experiential learning process coupled with pertinent academic course work, e.g.  Internship seminars offered by the Tulane University Center for Public Service for fulfillment of second tier public service.  Only one internship may be completed per semester.
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99DANC 4580Dance Company(1)Performing experience, advanced-level dance techniques and practical experience in dance production.
Course may be repeated 8 times for credit.Course Limit:8DANC 4590Senior Project(3)A continuation of dance composition with emphasis on development, research and production of senior concert pieces with written analysis of process.
Course may be repeated 8 times for credit.
Prerequisite(s):DANC 2010,2520and3520.Prerequisite(s):DANC 2010,2520and3520.Course Limit:8DANC 4600Choreography & Media(3)An introduction to dance for camera in its various forms. It provides a brief overview of aesthetic, historic, and cultural representations of the body through image and media and offers a context in which to explore visual imagery and narrative within the frame of camera/screen.DANC 4650Senior Choreographic Project(3)Advanced choreographic projects.
Prerequisite(s):DANC 3520.Prerequisite(s):DANC 3520.DANC 4710Dance Hist:Prim To 19 C.(3)A survey of dance, including the anthropological aspects of dance, in primitive cultures and the development of dance in the Western World.DANC 4720Dance Hist:20th C. & Beyond(3,4)A survey of dance in the 20th-century United States emphasizing the development of modern dance, its impact on classical ballet and on dance in the Western World.DANC 4730Dance History: The History of Ballet and Modern Dance(3-4)This survey course traces the development and evolution of Ballet and Modern Dance from the Renaissance through the present dayDANC 4800Contemporary Dance IV(2)This 2-credit class offers a continuation of the development of contemporary dance skills with emphasis on coordination, body awareness, alignment and an expanded movement vocabulary. This is a studio course, but includes some aspects of theory, history, and appreciation of modern and contemporary dance. Course may be repeated for credit.Course Limit:8DANC 4810Special Topics(1-3)Specialty courses in dance techniques, projects, and dance related subjects as designed by dance faculty.
Course may be repeated 8 times for credit.Course Limit:8Maximum Hours:99DANC 4820Ballet IV(2)Classical ballet technique with emphasis on alignment, complex movement combinations, and precision in execution. Includes pointe work and theory of ballet as an art form. Class meets 2 days per week. Course may be repeated 8 times for credit.Course Limit:8DANC 4830Intensive Contemporary Dance IV(3)This 2-credit class offers a continuation of the development of contemporary dance skills with emphasis on coordination, body awareness, alignment and an expanded movement vocabulary. This is a studio course, but includes some aspects of theory, history, and appreciation of modern and contemporary dance. Courses may be repeated for credit.Course Limit:8DANC 4840Intensive Ballet IV(3)Classical ballet technique with emphasis on alignment, complex movement combinations, and precision in execution. Includes pointe work and theory of ballet as an art form. Class meets 4 days per week.
Course may be repeated 8 times for credit.Course Limit:8DANC 4890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Corequisite(s):DANC 4900.Maximum Hours:99DANC 4900Building Comm Thru Arts(3,4)This course will be taught in coordination with courses offered at Xavier and Dillard Universities.  The course examines the theory and practice of community-based arts, civic engagement in higher education, and the relationship between art and community development.  Students will work in teams with local artists on Home, New Orleans?, a multi-disciplinary, art-and-community-development project grounded in 4 selected New Orleans neighborhoods, the 9th Ward, the 7th Ward, Central City and Lakeview.Corequisite(s):DANC 4890.DANC 4910Independent Study(1-3)Independent projects with professors.
Course may be repeated 8 times for credit.Course Limit:8Maximum Hours:99DANC 4950Jazz Dance IV(2)An advanced study of dance devoted to movement exploration involving spatial, dynamic, and rhythmic combinations of various jazz and musical theatre dance styles. Historical study of jazz dance development is emphasized.
Course may be repeated 8 times for credit.Course Limit:8DANC 4960Tap Dance IV(2)An advanced course in rhythm tap with emphasis on complex rhythm patterns requiring intricate foot articulations and stylistic dance movements. Course may be repeated 8 times for credit.Course Limit:8DANC 4990Honors Thesis(3)Honors Thesis.DANC 4991Senior Honors Project in Fine Arts(3)Senior Honors Project in Fine ArtsDANC 5000Honors Thesis(4)Honors Thesis.DANC 5001Senior Honors Project in Fine Arts(3)Senior Honors Project in Fine ArtsPrerequisite(s):DANC 4991.DANC 5380Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Maximum Hours:99DANC 5390Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Junior year abroad. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99DANC 6010Creative Projects and Movement Practice(3)Creative Projects (CP) are advanced level choreographic and  creative studies or projects coordinated by DGS. Movement Practice (MP) is participation in either existing dance technique classes offered by the department or in existing individual movement practices. CP consists of advanced assignments taught by various dance faculty members, undergraduate student projects, and/or guest artist projects. For MP if students participate in technique classes offered by the department, these classes are combined with undergraduate students. Graduate students are expected to participate in the entire semester of the classes with 
advanced engagement with class materials. Graduate students, as returning professionals with existing individual movement practice, may elect to continue that practice. This course is core for IDP MFA. Required 5 of 6 semesters and repeatable up to 6 times.Course Limit:6DANC 6210Sem I: Text & Movement Studies(3)A graduate level course where choreographers work on individual and collaborative projects that examine the relationship between a variety of texts, existent and original, and communication through movement.  Projects/studies are presented throughout the semester.  Taught in conjunction with MFA in Playwriting, and with direct in-program experience with Performance I (DANC/THEA 2010) for undergraduate students.DANC 6220Seminar II: Dance and Performance Topics(3)This seminar introduces graduate students to dance and performance research and dance and performance theory by examining the work of contemporary scholars/researchers, dance/performance historians, and dance/performance critics. The class will include creative assignment correlated with theory and will cover several aspects of writing, including: research methods; literature review: dance and performance evolution and history; analysis of choreography and performance; performance descriptions; writing about dance and the moving body; and theoretical approaches to create original scholarship.DANC 6310Creative Projects/Rehearsal(2)Advanced level choreographic or creative projectsDANC 6410Choreography & Media(3)This course provides an introduction to dance for camera in its various forms, from the video-taping and editing of dance for the purpose of documentation, to the creation of dances made specifically for the screen. It provides a brief overview of aesthetic, historic and cultural representations of the body through image and media, and offers a context in which to explore visual imagery and narrative within the frame of the camera/screen, in contrast to that of the proscenium stage. This material is intended as a springboard for further in-depth exploration.DANC 6520Teaching Practices(3)Survey of teaching practices.DANC 6550Laban Movement Studies(3)Laban Movement Analysis (LMA), developed by Rudolph Laban is a theoretical framework and language for describing movement through movement experiences observations and theoretical discussions. It is a system of observing, analyzing, and synthesizing patterns of movement within the context
of the actions. The goal of LMA is to be fully embodied, to access maximum movement potential, to find authentic movement, and to integrate the body and mind to the study of effort, shape, and space.DANC 6553Philanthropy and Social Change(3)This course focuses on current. not-for-profit. performing arts organizations in New Orleans through real time grant making. Working directly with two local performing arts organizations. students will create project proposals with their community partner, and collectively award $10,000 over the course of the semester. With this experiential philanthropy. we will study the nonprofit sector. civil society. and social justice by having students confront the power and privilege of managing scarce resources in the face of abundant need.DANC 6820Special Topics(3)Special topics in Dance.Maximum Hours:99DANC 6821Special Topics(3)Special offering.DANC 6822Special Topics(3)Special topics in Dance.DANC 6890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Course Limit:99Maximum Hours:99DANC 6910Independent Study(1-3)Independent Study in Dance.DANC 7580MFA Internship(3-9)MFA Internship, Elective, unpaid, 3, 6, or 9 credits
(1/3, 2/3, or full semester variable). The MFA internship is a professional learning
experience that offers meaningful, practical work related to a student's field of
study or career interest. This elective course is for exceptional cases with opportunity
to work with an outside organization, arts-specific or otherwise, that benefit the final
thesis or work post-MFA of the graduate student. Student is responsible for finding
internship partner, presenting an internship prospectus for approval, with student and
internship partner signatures, by Tulane registration period during the semester prior to registration for the internship. DGS/faculty approval required prior to registration for the course. See department DGS for specific requirements for each credit level.DANC 7890MFA Internship(3-9)MFA Internship, Elective, unpaid, 3, 6, or 9 credits (1/3, 2/3, or full semester variable). The MFA internship is a professional learning experience that offers meaningful, practical work related to a student's field of study or career interest. This elective course is for exceptional cases with opportunity to work with an outside organization, arts-specific or otherwise, that benefit the final thesis or work post-MFA of the graduate student. Student is responsible for finding internship partner, presenting an internship prospectus for approval, with student and internship partner signatures, by Tulane registration period during the semester prior to registration for the internship. DGS/faculty approval required prior to registration for the course. See department DGS for specific requirements for each credit levelDANC 7900Management / Portfolio(3)Development of electronic portfolio, including arts administration topics. This course will prepare the student's portfolio, as well as the student, for the professional world, with emphasis on development of digital vitae/resumes, artistic statements, choreography reel, web site, portfolio, organization of materials, job search techniques, grant writing, and interview preparation.DANC 7990MFA Thesis Project I - Production(3)Performance and Written projectDANC 7991MFA Thesis Project II - Analysis(3)DANC 7991is the culminating written component of the IDP MFA thesis project. It is the analysis, dramaturgy, and written thesis of the project developed and presented forDANC 7990, Thesis Project I - Performance. Oral presentation and defense of the thesis project production (DANC 7990) and the written thesis (DANC 7991) is required at the end of the semester for DGS, Dance Faculty, Committee of Study, and invited guests. Graduate school guidelines apply for completion of the written thesis.Prerequisite(s):DANC 7990*.*May be taken concurrently.DANC 9980Masters Research(3)Continuation of MFA Thesis work. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hoursMaximum Hours:99