EDUC 1940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 1000 level. Departmental approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 2010Teaching Writing Early Childhood(1)This course focuses on the pedagogy and methods of teaching various genres of writing in PK-3 grade classrooms. In addition to learning the importance of the reading/writing connection, students will learn about effective traits of writing, how to analyze and respond to early childhood writing, and how to conduct writing workshops. The class will also explore new literacies and innovative ways to integrate technology in writing.  Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000and2890.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000and2890.EDUC 2940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 2000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 3100Theories of Learning(3)This course, designed specifically for the Teaching, Learning, and Training minor, will focus on how people learn.  There are many factors that influence learning among infants, toddlers, middle childhood, adolescents, and adults, and this course will introduce you to the various theories of learning that address each stage. Students will examine the ideas of learning theorists and practitioners in the field, as well as explore the advantages and limitations to various learning theories.  Students will also develop, design, implement, and test a learning experience of their own. Course may be repeated up to 1 time. Prerequisites:EDLA 2000,2890.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000and2890.EDUC 3220Linguistics for English Language Learning(3)This course introduces educators to English language structures, English language use, second language development, and language processes to support and ensure the success of multilingual learners of English. Educators will examine and assess how, when, and why core concepts and ideas from language acquisition and linguistics impact the teaching and learning of multilingual learners of English. At the completion of this course, educators will be able to identify, understand, and explain the nature of language learning challenges arising in the use of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills across different content areas. They will be able to develop and elaborate plans for instructional and learning techniques and strategies to address those language learning challenges.EDUC 3230Intercultural Communication & Language Pedagogy.(3)This course introduces educators to the sociocultural contexts that impact language teaching, learning and acquisition to support and ensure the development of equitable and inclusive classroom and school environments for multilingual learners of English. Educators will examine and assess the role that intercultural communication plays in how and why teachers and learners behave and communicate as they do. At the completion of this course, educators will be able to identify, understand, and explain real and potential communication breakdowns in instructional and assessment practices that impact language learning and acquisition. They will be able to recommend and design instructional and assessment strategies that demonstrate and build intercultural awareness and communication skills in teachers of multilingual learners of English and learners themselves.EDUC 3240Inclusive Curriculum & Materials Design for Multicultural Classrooms(3)This course introduces educators to the concept of English learner (EL)-inclusive curriculum and materials design for multicultural classrooms. Educators will survey the steps of the curriculum and materials design process to identify opportunities for instructional decision-making that lead to greater inclusivity for multilingual learners of English. They will also examine and explain the ways in which curricula and materials create or do not create inclusive learning experiences for multilingual learners of English in multicultural classrooms. At the completion of this course, educators will be able to propose and enact modifications to curricula and materials that create greater EL-inclusivity in multicultural classrooms. Pre-requisites:EDUC 3220andEDUC 3230or instructor approval.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3220*and3230*.*May be taken concurrently.EDUC 3250Methods for Teaching Multilingual Learners of English(3)This course introduces educators to evidence-based approaches, techniques and instructional strategies used to create supportive, learner-centered environments for multilingual learners of English. Educators will develop and apply an understanding of how and why the principles and instructional strategies of content-based language learning can be effectively used to provide grade-level, standards-based instruction for multilingual learners of English. At the completion of this course, educators will be able to analyze and evaluate the appropriateness of materials and resources for multilingual learners of English, as well as use scaffolding strategies to provide comprehensible input for multilingual learners of English. They will be able to design content-based, grade-level, standards-based lessons for multilingual learners of English using the Sheltered Instruction Observation Protocol (SIOP) model. Pre-requisites:EDUC 3220andEDUC 3230or instructor approval.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3220*and3230*.*May be taken concurrently.EDUC 3410The Craft of Teaching(3)This is a course for those increasing their knowledge about instructional design and its impact on teaching and learning. This course examines (a) the process by which students learn and teachers plan and deliver instruction including the instructional design process of Understanding by Design (UbD) and effective teaching strategies; (b) the importance of assessment and student work analysis as key components of the learning and teaching process. Candidates will learn to plan lessons and units that are focused, sequential, and develop student understanding of knowledge or skills. Teacher candidates will design assessments that include feedback to students on their learning and provide data that inform instructional planning and teaching. Candidates will study theories of behavior management and strategies for creating and maintaining an optimal learning environment. Project requirements and readings will align with grade levels and content field for which pre-service teachers are seeking certification or degree. This course provides foundational skills in teaching and learning that will be used for further development in later methods courses.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000.EDUC 3420Foundations of Emergent Literacy(3)Foundations of Emergent Literacy provides an introduction to children’s speech and language development, appropriate methodologies for building the communication skills of young children, the overall scope of emergent literacy issues - with a heavy emphasis on phonemic awareness/phonics, and guided practice using children's books and appropriate technology for young readers in the classroom.  Evidence-based reading research will form the foundation when studying effective strategies for teaching reading.Prerequisite(s):(EDLA 2000and2890).EDUC 3422Foundations of Elementary Literacy(3)Foundations of Elementary Literacy provides an introduction to children’s speech and language development, appropriate methodologies for building the communication skills of children, the overall scope of elementary literacy issues emphasizing the five pillars of literacy: phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, vocabulary, and comprehension. Evidence-based reading research will form the foundation when studying effective strategies for teaching reading including and guided reading practice using multi-genre grade-level texts and appropriate technology for readers in the elementary classroom.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000.EDUC 3510Teaching ECE Sci & Soc Studies(3)This course will prepare prospective teachers to teach science and social studies in the early childhood setting (preschool through 3rd grade). This course covers methods for teaching developmentally appropriate topics in science (earth space science, physical science, life science, and engineering/technology/ and social studies (civics, history, geography, and economics). Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, and on performance-based assessment. Students work with manipulatives and technology to explore science and social studies, solve problems, and learn ways to teach this content to children.  Students will also practice creating and refining age-appropriate unit and lesson plans based on Understanding by Design model (Wiggins & McTighe). Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3410,3893,3420and3801.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3410,3893,3420and3801.EDUC 3801Early Childhood Reading Methods(3)This course addresses evidence-based approaches for the effective teaching of literacy in PreK-3rd grade. The five essential components of reading instruction, as identified by the National Reading Panel, of this class include: phonemic awareness skills, phonics skills, reading fluency, vocabulary development, and comprehension strategies. The teacher candidate observes and learns to create rich literate environments which foster reading, writing, speaking, listening, and technological literacies through the integration of their foundation knowledge, use of instructional practices, approaches and methods, curriculum materials, and the appropriate use of assessment.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3420.EDUC 3802Reading Methods Secondary Ed(3)This course addresses evidence-based reading research while studying the effective teaching of content area literacy.  An emphasis will be placed on developing adaptations of well-known strategies in addressing disciplinary ways of thinking, reading, and writing in the content areas. Additionally, students will understand and be able to apply the disciplinary literacies associated with vocabulary and comprehension in a variety of disciplines by utilizing assessments and new literacies needed for Twenty-First Century content area instruction.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 3410and3893).EDUC 3803Elementary Education Reading Methods(3)This course addresses evidence-based approaches for the effective teaching of literacy in 1st-5th grade. The five essential components of reading instruction, as identified by the National Reading Panel, of this class include: phonemic awareness skills, phonics skills, reading fluency, vocabulary development, and comprehension strategies. Additionally, reading and writing assessment, content-area skills and strategies for reading to learn, and the reading-writing-thinking connection are emphasized. This course includes a practicum placement in a school setting. The teacher candidate observes and learns to create rich literate environments which foster reading, writing, speaking, listening and technological literacies through the integration of their foundation knowledge, use of instructional practices, approaches and methods, curriculum materials, and the appropriate use of assessment.  This course includes a practicum placement in a school setting.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3422.EDUC 3804Early Childhood Reading Instruction for All Learners(3)Students will learn key reading concepts effective for all children including those with language delays, dyslexia, and other reading difficulties. The course will provide students with knowledge about reading screeners and continuous diagnostic assessments that inform differentiated reading instruction and monitor progress. Students will learn how to deliver structured literacy lessons that include the five components of reading according to the National Reading Panel, with an emphasis on phonology and other essential components like sound-symbol association, oral language, fluency, and writing. The course will provide students with resources that teach reading using explicit instruction and daily student-teacher interaction to monitor reading progression.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3801.EDUC 3805Elementary Reading Instruction for All Learners(3)Students will learn key reading concepts effective for all 1st-5th grade children including those with language delays, dyslexia, and other reading difficulties. The course will provide students with knowledge about reading screeners and continuous diagnostic assessments that inform differentiated reading instruction and monitor progress. Students will learn how to deliver structured and differentiated literacy lessons that include the five components of reading according to the National Reading Panel, with an emphasis on fluency, vocabulary, comprehension, and writing. The course will provide students with resources that teach reading using explicit instruction and daily student-teacher interaction to monitor reading progression.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3803.EDUC 3806Effective Reading Instruction for Developing Adolescent Readers(3)This course provides a comprehensive overview of the current knowledge on best practices for teaching older students with reading difficulties. The focus of reading instruction for adolescent readers is word study, fluency, vocabulary, and motivation. The course materials will describe in depth these critical skills adolescent readers need to become proficient readers. Students will study research-based practices that help struggling students improve their skills in the areas listed above. They will present a culturally diverse professional development plan for teachers and school personnel to allocate time and resources so that students receive appropriate, engaging interventions that improve their overall reading. For those taking this course at a graduate level, the emphasis will be placed on remediating a small group of students with reading difficulties. Graduate students will administer assessments to identify their students’ reading difficulties, create and implement a research-informed reading remediation plan, utilize progress monitoring to adjust to their students’ needs, and present their completed work.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3802.EDUC 3890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 3891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 3892Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 3893Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 3894Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Corequisite(s):EDUC 3230.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 3895Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 3940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 3000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 4100Critical Trends and Issues in Education(3)This course is an inquiry-based capstone seminar, designed for the Teaching, Learning, and Training minor, which synthesizes political, theoretical, social, and practical topics in a modern context and addresses multicultural education, technology, and gender issues, among other topics and issues. In this course, students will grapple with issues facing education and educators today, such as demographics; changing perceptions and research in human development and learning, equity and social justice; global awareness and interdependence; nature and the environment; aesthetics and creative endeavors; and education in nontraditional settings. This seminar will provide opportunities for students to engage in wide-range reading, intensive writing, critical analysis, respectful debate and thoughtful discussion of topics related to education in the 21st century.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3100,3410and3893.EDUC 4110Teaching Social Studies in ECE(3)This course will focus on the pedagogy and methods of teaching social studies and various genres of writing in the PreK-3rd grade classroom. This course covers methods for teaching developmentally appropriate social studies (civics, history, geography, and economics). Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, and on performance-based assessment. Students will work with manipulatives and technology to explore social studies, solve problems, and learn ways to teach this content to children. They will also learn the importance of the reading/writing connection, traits of effective writing, how to analyze and respond to early childhood writing, and how to conduct writing workshops. The class will also explore new literacies and innovative ways to integrate technology in writing with connections to social studies.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3801.EDUC 4120Teaching Science in the Early Childhood Classroom(3)This course will prepare prospective teachers to teach science and social studies in the early childhood setting (preschool through 3rd grade). This course covers methods for teaching developmentally appropriate topics in science (earth space science, physical science, life science, and engineering/technology/ and social studies (civics, history, geography, and economics). Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, inquiry-based learning and on performance-based assessment. Students will work with manipulatives and technology to explore science and social studies, solve problems, and learn ways to teach this content to children. They will also practice creating and refining age-appropriate unit and lesson plans based on the Understanding by Design model (Wiggins & McTighe).Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3801.EDUC 4130Teaching Mathematics in ECE(3)This course will prepare prospective teachers to teach mathematics in the early childhood setting (preschool through 3rd grade). This course covers both mathematical content and methods for teaching developmentally appropriate topics in arithmetic, geometry, algebra, probability and statistics, and measurement, data collection and analysis. Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, and on performance-based assessment. Students work with manipulatives and technology to explore mathematics, solve problems, and learn ways to teach mathematics content to children. Course includes practice in creating and refining age appropriate unit and lesson plans based on Understanding by Design model (Wiggins & McTighe).Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3801.EDUC 4210Secondary Method I: General(3)This course focuses on prominent methodological issues and the development of core teaching skills. Students will analyze different instructional methods; design comprehensive unit and lesson plans using the Understanding by Design model; develop integrated technology strategies and develop skills in differentiated instruction. Emphasis is placed on development of skills of self-analysis, reflection, and research-based decision-making. Students will interpret, refine, and demonstrate their understanding and mastery of general teaching practices through forty hours of field experience in a middle or high school setting. The course is designed to be very practicum-oriented; therefore, it is organized to provide time for one-on-one conferences in which the professor will advise on upcoming lessons and give detailed feedback on classroom observations. The regular class sessions are designed to be experiential, in which students will learn and participate in specific lessons and activities to use for classroom teaching, employing a variety of materials.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 3410and3893).EDUC 4220Methods II Social Studies(3)This is a seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for secondary teacher candidates to acquire skills in teaching methodologies and strategies specific to secondary social studies instruction. Topics include organization of subject matter, weekly and unit lesson planning, development of assessments, utilizing information technology for instruction, and working with diverse populations of students. Course activities include professional development workshops, teaching in a secondary classroom, discussion/reflections, demonstration of effective use of standards documents, inquiry activities, and a review of effective pedagogical and school improvement literature. A total of 30 clock hours of field experiences are required in the classroom setting.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 4210.EDUC 4230Methods II Science(3)This is a seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for secondary teacher candidates to acquire skills in teaching methodologies and strategies specific to the science content area in which they are seeking certification. Topics include organization of subject matter, weekly and unit lesson planning using the Understanding by Design model, development of assessments, utilizing information technology for instruction, and working with diverse populations of students. Course activities include teaching in a field site classroom, discussion/reflections, and demonstration of effective use of standards documents, inquiry activities and a review of effective pedagogical literature. A total of 30 clock hours of field experiences are required in the classroom setting. Two professional development experiences are also required.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 4210.EDUC 4240Methods II English(3)In this seminar and practicum course, candidates will study the various components of the English Language Arts curriculum along with a broad range of research-based instructional strategies, key theories and debates in the field of English education. Topics include strategies for integrating all language arts into the curriculum, lesson planning based on the Understanding by Design (UbD) model, and development of effective assessments. Students will learn how to utilize information technology for instruction, how to align curriculum with state and national literacy standards, and how to integrate strategies for working with diverse populations of students. Course activities include observations in secondary (6-12) English classrooms, development of lesson plans, teaching in a field-site classroom, discussion/reflections, inquiry activities, and a review of effective pedagogical literature. A total of 30 clock hours of field experiences and two professional development experiences are required.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 4210.EDUC 4250Methods II Mathematics(3)This is a seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for secondary teacher candidates to acquire skills in teaching methodologies and strategies specific to the math content area in which they are seeking certification. Topics include organization of subject matter, weekly and unit lesson planning using the Understanding by Design model, development of assessments, utilizing information technology for instruction, and working with diverse populations of students. Course activities include teaching in a field site classroom, discussion/reflections, and demonstration of effective use of standards documents, inquiry activities and a review of effective pedagogical literature. A total of 30 clock hours of field experiences are required in the classroom setting. Two professional development experiences are also required.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 4210.EDUC 4260Methods II: Foreign Language(3)This is a seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for secondary teacher candidates to acquire skills in teaching methodologies and strategies specific to foreign language instruction (Latin, French, Spanish, Italian, or German). Topics include lesson planning based on the Understanding by Design (UbD) model, and development of effective assessments, utilizing information technology for instruction, and working with diverse populations of students. Course activities include observations in secondary (6-12) foreign language classrooms, development of lesson plans, teaching in a field-site classroom, discussion/reflections, inquiry activities, and a review of effective pedagogical literature. A total of 30 clock hours of field experiences and two professional development experiences are required.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 4210.EDUC 4310Teaching Social Studies in the Elementary Education(3)This course will focus on the pedagogy and methods of teaching social studies in the 1st-5th grade classroom. This course covers methods for teaching developmentally appropriate social studies (civics, history, geography, and economics) and the ten NCSS themes. Emphasis will be placed on teaching the roles and responsibilities of individuals in our democracy. Students will learn how to explore and teach complex social studies issues in the elementary classroom.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3803.EDUC 4320Teaching Science in the Elementary Classroom(3)This course will prepare prospective teachers to teach science in the early childhood setting (preschool through 3rd grade). This course covers methods for teaching developmentally appropriate topics in science (earth space science, physical science, life science, and engineering/technology. Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, inquiry-based learning and performance-based assessment. Students will work with manipulatives and technology to explore science, solve problems, and learn ways to teach science content 12 to children. They will also practice creating and refining age-appropriate unit and lesson plans based on the Understanding by Design model (Wiggins & McTighe).Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3803.EDUC 4330Teaching Math in Elementary Classrooms(3)This course will prepare prospective teachers to teach mathematics in the early childhood setting (preschool through 3rd grade). This course covers both mathematical content and methods for teaching developmentally appropriate topics in arithmetic, geometry, algebra, probability and statistics, and measurement, data collection and analysis. Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, and on performance-based assessment. Students work with manipulatives and technology to explore mathematics, solve problems, and learn ways to teach mathematics content to children. Course includes practice in creating and refining age-appropriate unit and lesson plans based on Understanding by Design model (Wiggins & McTighe).Prerequisite(s):EDUC 3803.EDUC 4910Independent Study(1-3)Independent Study in Education.EDUC 5210Residency Student Teach PK-3(3)Part one. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience of the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,3160,EDUC 3410,3893,3420,3801,4110,4120and4130.EDUC 5220Residency Student Teach PK-3(3)Part two. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,3160,EDUC 3410,3893,3420,3801,4110,4120,4130and5210.EDUC 5230Pract Resid Early Child PK-3(3)Part one. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. When a candidate completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,3160,EDUC 3410,3893,3420,3801,4110,4120and4130.EDUC 5240Pract Resid Early Child PK-3(3)The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating course of Tulane’s Teacher Preparation & Certification Program and occurs the year following the completion of the first 27 hours of professional coursework. The candidate will blend theory and practice in the actual activity of teaching all day, attend a series of seminars, and complete projects directly related to their teaching assignment. Candidate must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school system and will be under the supervision of a mentor teacher at the school site as well as university faculty. Prerequisite(s): (EDLA 2000,2890,3160,EDUC 3410,3420,3893,3801,4110,4120,4130and5230) or Permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,3160,EDUC 3410,3420,3893,3801,4110,4120,4130and5230.EDUC 5250Residency Student Teach 6-12(3)The year-long student teaching residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience of Tulane’s Teacher Preparation & Certification Program and occurs the year following the completion of the first 24 hours of professional coursework. The candidate will blend theory and practice in the actual activity of teaching. Students will attend a series of seminars and complete assignments directly related to their teaching assignment. Candidates will be placed in a school and will be under the direct supervision of a mentor teacher at the school site as well as university faculty. Prerequisite(s): (EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3410,3893,3802and4210and (EDUC 4220,4230,4240,4250or4260)) or Permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3410,3893,3802and4210and (EDUC 4220,4230,4240,4250or4260).EDUC 5260Residency Student Teach 6-12(3)The year-long student teaching residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience of Tulane’s Teacher Preparation & Certification Program and occurs the year following the completion of the first 24 hours of professional coursework. The candidate will blend theory and practice in the actual activity of teaching. Students will attend a series of seminars and complete assignments directly related to their teaching assignment. Candidates will be placed in a school and will be under the direct supervision of a mentor teacher at the school site as well as university faculty. Prerequisite(s): (EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3410,3893,3802and4210and (EDUC 4220,4230,4240,4250or4260) andEDUC 5250) or Permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3410,3893,3802and4210and (EDUC 4220,4230,4240,4250or4260) andEDUC 5250.EDUC 5270Practitioner Residency 6-12(3)The yearlong student teaching residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience of Tulane’s Teacher Preparation & Certification Program and occurs the year following the completion of the first 24 hours of professional coursework. The candidate will blend theory and practice in the actual activity of teaching. Students will attend a series of seminars and complete assignments directly related to their teaching assignment. Candidates will be placed in a school and will be under the direct supervision of a mentor teacher at the school site as well as university faculty. Candidates who have completed at least three years of classroom teaching may be eligible for a waiver from the residency. Prerequisite(s): (EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3410,3893,3802and4210and (EDUC 4220,4230,4240,4250or4260)) or Permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3410,3893,3802and4210and (EDUC 4220,4230,4240,4250or4260).EDUC 5271Applied Research Project I(3)The yearlong applied research project (2 semesters) is the culminating experience for students not seeking certification in the Teacher Preparation and Certification Program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the program. The candidate will blend theory and practice in the identification of an important and existing educational problem, data analysis, research-based recommendations and action plans, and reflection on the results of the intervention. The project option is available for students who do not intend to pursue Louisiana teacher certification upon graduation. UG Pre-Requisites: all courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 5281Applied Research Project (3) The yearlong applied research project (2 semesters) is the culminating experience for students not seeking certification in the Teacher Preparation and Certification Program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the program. The candidate will blend theory and practice in the identification of an important and existing educational problem, data analysis, research-based 26 recommendations and action plans, and reflection on the results of the intervention. The project option is available for students who do not intend to pursue Louisiana teacher certification upon graduation. 5271 is Semester 1 of the year long capstone. Prerequisites: All courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 5280Practitioner Residency 6-12(3)The yearlong student teaching residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience of Tulane’s Teacher Preparation & Certification Program and occurs the year following the completion of the first 24 hours of professional coursework. The candidate will blend theory and practice in the actual activity of teaching. Students will attend a series of seminars and complete assignments directly related to their teaching assignment. Candidates will be placed in a school and will be under the direct supervision of a mentor teacher at the school site as well as university faculty. Candidates who have completed at least three years of classroom teaching may be eligible for a waiver from the residency. Prerequisite(s): (EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3410,3893,3802and4210and (EDUC 4220,4230,4240,4250or 4360) andEDUC 5270) or Permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):EDLA 2000,2890,EDUC 3410,3893,3802and4210and (EDUC 4220,4230,4240,4250or 4360) andEDUC 5270.EDUC 5281Applied Research Project II(3)The yearlong applied research project (2 semesters) is the culminating experience for students not seeking certification in the Teacher Preparation and Certification Program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the program. The candidate will blend theory and practice in the identification of an important and existing educational problem, data analysis, research-based 26 recommendations and action plans, and reflection on the results of the intervention. The project option is available for students who do not intend to pursue Louisiana teacher certification upon graduation. 5281 is the second semester of the yearlong capstone.EDUC 5310Residency I - EE Student Residency(3)Part one. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience of the Elementary Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, sill, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State's guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 745 - Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Prerequisites: all courses in Elementary Ed program preceding residency courses or permission of DirectorEDUC 5320Residency II - EE Student Residency(3)Part two. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Elementary Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State's guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher of practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 - Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Prerequisites: All courses in Elementary Ed program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 5330Residency I - EE Practitioner Residency(3)Part one. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education 27 program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. When a candidate completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE.
UG Pre-Requisites: all courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.
MAT Prerequisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 5340Residency II - EE Practitioner Residency(3)Part two. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. When a candidate 14 completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE.
UG Pre-Requisites: all courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.
MAT Pre-Requisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 5380Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 5390Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 5500Assessment and Evaluation of Students with Disabilities(3)This course introduces educators to the collection and use of comprehensive assessment and evaluation data to ensure the success of students with high incidence disabilities.  Educators will analyze frameworks for assessment and evaluation to underscore the sequence, procedures, and decisions involved in a comprehensive process.  Topics include collecting data through multiple measures to drive informed decisions about identification, eligibility, IEP creation, services, and instruction; it also targets curriculum resources and intervention strategies with an emphasis on tiered planning and implementation.  At the completion of this course, educators will be able to identify, understand, and implement evidence-based practices on data usage with a particular emphasis on using data to design instructional and behavioral interventions necessary for building on individual strengths and addressing the needs of students with disabilities.EDUC 5510Collaborative Teaming(3)This course focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary to form productive, collaborative relationships with families, paraeducators, general educators, building leaders, and service providers to best serve the needs of students. Emphasis is placed on implementing federal and state mandates for special education and related service programs as they relate to building and maintaining relationships with the and developing effective school programs.  Course topics include collaboration in schools, community systems and families, historical perspectives of family life and school involvement, effective relationships between home, school and community, communication among professionals and with families, school-based programs, and multicultural considerations.  At the completion of this course, educators will be able to describe, plan for, and implement best practices in team collaboration and communication for the benefit of students.EDUC 5520Instructional Practices in Special Education(3)This course examines various ways of assessing student knowledge and identifying and implementing evidence-based practices to increase the success of students with disabilities in mathematics, social studies, science, and English language arts, primarily in grades 3-12.  Tulane students learn best practices for understanding and evaluating curricular demands, monitoring student progress in content-area courses, providing tiered supports and accommodations in teaching, using assessment and grading alternatives, and incorporating the principles of explicit and strategic instruction to design methods that will promote and enhance content-area learning.  This course also presents the needs for specialized services to meet specific learning and/or behavioral needs and provides the basic frameworks for conceptualizing best practices, including the principles of Universal Design for Learning and Multi-Tier Systems of Support (MTSS). At the completion of this course, educators will be able to evaluate and design initial instructional accommodations and interventions for meeting the needs of students with high incidence disabilities.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 5500and5510.EDUC 5530Reading and Literacy(3)This course provides in-depth learning experiences targeting literacy. Educators will learn about assessment tools and assessment systems used in tiered support frameworks to determine the required intensity of literacy support and instruction needed by children/adolescents with high-incidence special education needs. The course also provides evidence-based instructional approaches and effective curricula that have been developed for students with disabilities and students who are struggling in general.  At the completion of this course, educators will be able to evaluate and design specialized literacy instruction tailored to the specific strengths and needs of their students.  Prerequisites:EDUC 5500,5510.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 5500and5510.EDUC 5540Behavior Support and Intervention(3)This course provides a framework for teaching and a problem-solving approach for developing behavioral interventions for both students with disabilities and their typical peers.  Tulane students explore strategies for developing pro-social behavior in classrooms and whole-school contexts. They also learn to implement data collection as well as direct observation to assess problem behavior, discover the functions of problem behavior, and explore pro-social alternatives for home, school and community settings.  At the completion of this course, educators will be able to discuss, evaluate, and design the appropriate interventions for students requiring additional behavior supports.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 5500and5510.EDUC 5550Self-Determination and Transition(3)This course provides a background in career development and transition education for persons with disabilities from middle school through adulthood. Emphasis is placed on IDEA requirements for transition services, career development, and the transition processes; transition services assessment, secondary special education curricular implications, career development and transition service needs; collaborative services in schools and communities to promote quality transition services; and current issues and trends in transition education and services.  At the completion of this course, educators will have a framework for fostering post-secondary success through a student-centered plan focused on the knowledge and skills necessary for successful transition to college, career, and independent living. Note: This course is part of the required course sequence for the grades 4-8 and 6-12 “mild-moderate add-on special education certification” in the state of Louisiana.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 5500and5510.EDUC 5560Fundamentals of Instructional Technology(3)This course provides a problem-solving approach and the framework for supporting instruction with appropriate assistive technology for students with disabilities. In it, Tulane students explore strategies for providing access and opportunity for success with the academic and social aspects of schooling, and learn to progress monitor and adjust appropriate supports to maximize the benefit for students.  At the completion of this course, educators will be able to create engaging, effective learning experiences for students with disabilities with the assistance of appropriate instructional technologies.
Note: This course is part of the required course sequence for the “mild-moderate add-on special education certification” in the state of Louisiana.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 5500and5510.EDUC 5890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 5891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 5892Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 5893Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 5894Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 5940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 5000 level. Departmental approval required.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 6000Historical and Philosophical Foundations of Education(3)With the mindset of equity as its central organizing theme, this course provides a foundation for understanding the various aims, systems, and issues central to the development of American education over time. The course surveys major developments, landmark cases, and a variety of philosophical perspectives that underpin PreK12 education in its current manifestations with the systems across Greater New Orleans serving as the central case study.  Emphasis is placed on schools’ ever-widening umbrella to provide for greater measures of inclusivity and choice for all learners.  The course culminates in an examination and “stabilization” of foundational concepts in American education, with a specific eye for the impact on schools and communities over time.EDUC 6010Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Education. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99EDUC 6020Learning Processes Across the Lifespan(3)This course examines theoretical and empirical perspectives from the field of education regarding how infants, toddlers, children, adolescents, and adults learn.  Factors that influence and structure learning are a primary focus, as are the advantages and limitations of various theories of learning.  The course spotlights the current emphasis on “trauma-informed practices” across Greater New Orleans, adopting an inductive approach that ultimately examines how theory informs practice.  The course culminates in students developing, designing, implementing, assessing, and critiquing a learning experience from multiple student perspectives to ensure equity in access, opportunity, and success.EDUC 6040Curriculum, Instruction, & Assessment for All Learners(3)This course provides the foundation for narrowing the gap between the intended, implemented, and achieved curriculum in a given educational context.  The course examines definitions and models for high-quality curricula while unearthing the aims of education implied by the standards for excellence used; it also examines approaches to learning standards and their relationship with learner-centered educational approaches to teaching.  Instructionally, the course surveys foundational mindsets, classroom management, instructional strategies, and student motivation through the lens of culturally-relevant practices.  It also examines the best avenues for assessment for and of learning particularly in the on-going high-stakes environments of public education.  With New Orleans as a learning laboratory of differing approaches, the course culminates in an examination of current realities versus ideal practices with respect to the question:  Does all really mean all?EDUC 6060Methods of Educational Research(3)This course provides an introduction to empirical research and a variety of research approaches common to the field of education.  Throughout the course, students locate, understand, evaluate, and interpret qualitative as well as quantitative educational research.  Readings include studies from different research paradigms and a variety of educational contexts, including the research basis for equity-focused instruction.  The course culminates in applying what we know from research and best practice to explore and/or evaluate a targeted aspect of education in Greater New Orleans.EDUC 6080Culminating Capstone Project(3)In this course, students apply concepts, theories, best practices, knowledge, and principles as learned throughout the program.  Students grapple with the complexities of teaching and learning by testing concepts, strategies, and approaches in real-world contexts.  Through a site-based immersion project completed through options such as fieldwork, internships, or simulations, students demonstrate master of the program competencies and learning objectives.  Students present findings through written reports and presentations that are subject- and context-specific, tailored to the appropriate audiences, and clear on the implications for teaching and learning.
M.Ed. program students with less than three years of relevant work experience participate in a capstone with an experiential, site-based component where a project is shaped and applied on-site. Elements include problem identification, standards of excellence, key stakeholders, facilitating and hindering factors, strategic recommendations, implementation, analysis, interpretation, and implications.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 6000,6020,6040and6060).EDUC 6100Reimagining and Leading Equitable Education Systems for the Future(3)This course supports education leaders in developing and communicating a vision and strategy for student success centered on excellence and equity for all. The early part of the course includes the influence of history on the features and limitations of the current system, including the educational implications of race, poverty, and “difference” writ large.  The course investigates shifts in learning, management, and equity, as well as a survey of promising systemic reforms and strategies such as integrated student supports, collective impact, and cross-sector collaboration. Key skills of effective education leaders include communicating and building support for vision and change. Students develop a public narrative and strategic communication plan around their educational vision and strategy.EDUC 6120Leading Learning(3)This course examines leading learning of students and adults. Focus areas include the nexus of Dewey’s “child and the curriculum”; the centrality of the instructional task as predictive of student learning; the challenges of improving instruction for each learner; developing, enacting, and scaling vision for learning and then managing for it; and the role of evidence in making decisions about instructional practice. The course also addresses the role of the leader’s identity and previous learning experiences in leading the learning of others, and the implications for guarding against bias. Throughout the course, students examine current systems of learning through classroom observations, interviews with leaders in the field, and case studies.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6100orMPAD 7120.EDUC 6140Managing Effective Equity-Centered Educational Organizations(3)This course surveys system-wide leadership in terms of organizational design, planning, oversight, and progress monitoring through the specific aspects of governance, operations, development, finance, and management.  These components of organizational viability impact all aspects of programming and are therefore critical to education leadership at all levels. Becoming an effective and sustainable education leader lies at the center of this course with an emphasis on growing the ability to understand, engage, and effectively support and challenge others and create conditions for equitable school and system management, governance, and transformation. The course uses case studies and simulations from both traditional public and charter settings from the New Orleans context.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6100.EDUC 6150An Introduction to Education Finance and Budgeting: Implications for Strategy, Equity, and Change(3)This course is an introduction to public school finance and budgeting systems in the United States. Budgeting and finance impact all aspects of schooling and education and are therefore critical to education leadership at all levels. Focus areas include the budgeting process; the politics of budgeting; district and school cost drivers; revenue generation including federal, state, and local funding sources; norm-based budgeting; weighted-student funding; cost-benefit analysis; benchmarking; and “key performance indicators” (KPIs) and “objectives and key results” (OKRs). Questions include: How can budgeting reflect the values and priorities of schools and systems? What are the equity implications of education budgeting and finance? What are the economic and financial drivers that maintain or disrupt the status quo? The course will use case studies and simulations from both traditional public and charter settings with special emphasis on the New Orleans context.EDUC 6160Engaging Family and Community Stakeholders(3)This course provides the foundation for equity-centered educational leadership and the primacy of effective communication.  With the school as the central organizing body, we examine the connections among school personnel, students and families, and community members and groups and the difficulties associated with balancing policy dictates with widespread participation in the educational enterprise.  We investigate channels for identifying, gathering, and using data to inform programming, whether through needs analyses, action research, or participatory processes that serve to disrupt the status quo and empower individuals to thrive.  A series of cases highlight the urgency of making the implicit explicit with respect to the hidden agenda of schooling and unpacking false narratives around difference.EDUC 6180Driving Change and Transformation for Impact(3)This course supports education leaders in managing change and leading transformation in ways that create the conditions for discernable impact:  excellence for all.  We begin with a survey of how law and policy drive change over time and the role education leaders play in policy enactment and advocacy.  With change as the one anticipated constant, the course investigates shifting priorities that affect the outcomes and impact we seek. An examination of systemic reforms and strategies that have failed helps future leaders to determine what went wrong and highlight promising practices that emerge from effective change management. We put data – mining for, gathering, analyzing, using to drive improvement – front and center, as well as standards of excellence for guiding and gauging success. The course recaps the previous four to pressure test that the vision, talent and learning systems, organizational function, and impactful participation are in place and driving the organization toward achieving results. Students will develop a public narrative and strategic communication plan around their vision and strategy for change.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6100,6120and6140.EDUC 6190Educational Leadership & Policy for Changemakers(3)This course provides an overview of leadership and policy topics especially relevant to leadership in the education sector through four modules. For the policy module, topics include federal, state, and local education policy development; the influence of law and policy on schooling over time; and the role of education leaders in policy advocacy and enactment. The course includes a module on the politics and contextual factors involved in leading in collaboration with a school board. A third module on school law provides an overview of the most significant legal issues in public elementary and secondary schools and implications for leading and decision-making. The final module centers on the effective and sustainable education leader with an emphasis on growing the ability to understand, engage, and effectively support and challenge others and creating conditions for equitable school and system transformation and governance. The course will use case studies and live cases with current education leaders to engage students authentically in the field.EDUC 6220Linguistics for English Language Learning(3)This course introduces students to English language structures, English language use, second language development, and language processes to support and ensure the success of multilingual learners of English. Students examine and assess how, when, and why core concepts and ideas from language acquisition and linguistics, impact the teaching and learning of multilingual learners of English. At the completion of this course, students identify, understand, and explain the nature of language learning challenges arising in the use of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills across different content areas. They develop and elaborate plans for instructional and learning techniques and strategies to address those language learning challenges. For students pursuing an M.Ed., this course also includes an in-depth examination of the grammar of spoken and written English. This in-depth examination of grammar results in students having the ability to analyze and explain language use and language use errors from a discourse perspective that considers the authentic use of language in context versus the prescribed use of decontextualized language. Students pursuing an M.Ed. also investigate the research techniques and tools of corpus linguistics and develop plans, strategies, and techniques for applying and sharing their knowledge with learners and colleagues.EDUC 6230Intercultural Communication & Language Pedagogy(3)This course introduces students to English language structures, English language use, second language development, and language processes to support and ensure the success of multilingual learners of English. Students examine and assess how, when, and why core concepts and ideas from language acquisition and linguistics, impact the teaching and learning of multilingual learners of English. At the completion of this course, students identify, understand, and explain the nature of language learning challenges arising in the use of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills across different content areas. They develop and elaborate plans for instructional and learning techniques and strategies to address those language learning challenges. For students pursuing an M.Ed., this course also includes an in-depth examination of the grammar of spoken and written English. This in-depth examination of grammar results in students having the ability to analyze and explain language use and language use errors from a discourse perspective that considers the authentic use of language in context versus the prescribed use of decontextualized language. Students pursuing an M.Ed. also investigate the research techniques and tools of corpus linguistics and develop plans, strategies, and techniques for applying and sharing their knowledge with learners and colleagues.EDUC 6240Inclusive Curriculum & Materials Design for Multicultural Classrooms(3)This course introduces students to the concept of English learner (EL)-inclusive curriculum and materials design for multicultural classrooms. Students survey the steps of the curriculum and materials design process to identify opportunities for instructional decision-making that lead to greater inclusivity for multilingual learners of English. They also examine and explain the ways in which curricula and materials create or do not create inclusive learning experiences for multilingual learners of English in multicultural classrooms. At the completion of this course, students propose and enact modifications to curricula and materials that create greater EL-inclusivity in multicultural classrooms. For students pursuing an M.Ed., this course also includes investigation into the academic research on the lack of inclusivity and bias in standardized tests and other curriculum-mandated assessments. Through the lens of this research, students pursing an M.Ed. analyze the assessments for a specific curriculum, prepare suggestions for an alternative assessment plan, and develop instructor guidelines for creating inclusivity and eliminating bias in their classroom assessments.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6220and6320.EDUC 6250Methods for Teaching Multilingual Learners of English(3)This course introduces students to evidence-based approaches, techniques and instructional strategies used to create supportive, learner-centered environments for multilingual learners of English. Students develop and apply an understanding of how and why the principles and instructional strategies of content-based language learning can be effectively used to provide grade-level, standards-based instruction for multilingual learners of English. At the completion of this course, students analyze and evaluate the appropriateness of materials and resources for multilingual learners of English, as well as use scaffolding strategies to provide comprehensible input for multilingual learners of English. They design content-based, grade-level, standards-based lessons for multilingual learners of English using the Sheltered Instruction Observation Protocol (SIOP) model. Students pursuing an M.Ed. examine academic research on the use of two different pedagogies associated with culturally responsive or culturally relevant education (e.g., trauma-informed pedagogy, funds of knowledge approach, equity pedagogy, indigenous pedagogy, etc.) and evaluate the impact that combining the principles/practices of these pedagogies with the use of the SIOP model might have on multilingual learners of English. Students pursuing an M.Ed. develop a webinar on how to integrate culturally responsive pedagogies into the use of the SIOP model.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6220and6230.EDUC 6310Teaching Social Studies in the Elementary Education Classroom(3)This course will focus on the pedagogy and methods of teaching social studies in first-through-fifth grade classrooms. This course covers methods for teaching developmentally appropriate social studies (civics, history, geography, and economics). Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, and on performance-based assessment. Students will work with manipulatives and technology to explore social studies, solve problems, and learn ways to teach this content to children. For those taking this course at a graduate level, students will research and identify seminal articles about social concepts introduced and embedded in children’s learning through various means including children’s books, conversations, dialogic reading, and explicit instruction. Students will learn how to teach social studies as part of an inquiry-based learning experience and demonstrate this type of learning by constructing a social studies unit.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6000,6810and6830.EDUC 6320Teaching Science in the Elementary Education Classroom(3)This course will prepare prospective teachers to teach science in first-through-fifth grade classrooms. This course covers methods for teaching developmentally appropriate topics in science (earth space science, physical science, life science, and engineering/technology. Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, inquiry-based learning and performance-based assessment. Students will work with manipulatives and technology to explore science, solve problems, and learn ways to teach science content to children. They will also practice creating and refining age-appropriate unit and lesson plans based on the Understanding by Design model (Wiggins & McTighe). For those taking this course at a graduate level, students have opportunities to utilize best practices to inform lesson planning and review researchbased pedagogical strategies to teach diverse learners. Students will have the opportunity to research and find curriculum with lessons that teach concepts and skills through case studies, practical tasks, and reflective activities. Students will be able to create a comprehensive list of curricula materials and then critique an elementary age-appropriate science lesson that examines problems in real-world settings.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6000,6830and6840.EDUC 6330Math in the Elementary Education Classroom(3)This course will prepare prospective teachers to teach science in first-through-fifth grade classrooms. This course covers methods for teaching developmentally appropriate topics in science (earth space science, physical science, life science, and engineering/technology. Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, inquiry-based learning and performance-based assessment. Students will work with manipulatives and technology to explore science, solve problems, and learn ways to teach science content to children. They will also practice creating and refining age-appropriate unit and lesson plans based on the Understanding by Design model (Wiggins & McTighe). For those taking this course at a graduate level, students have opportunities to utilize best practices to inform lesson planning and review researchbased pedagogical strategies to teach diverse learners. Students will have the opportunity to research and find curriculum with lessons that teach concepts and skills through case studies, practical tasks, and reflective activities. Students will be able to create a comprehensive list of curricula materials and then critique an elementary age-appropriate science lesson that examines problems in real-world settings.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6000,6810,6840and6850.EDUC 6400Foundations of Instructional Design and Applications(3)This course will introduce students to historical and contemporary learning theories, frameworks, and models; instruction systems design, processes, and analysis; learning technology innovations; ethics and equity, diversity, and inclusion within the field of Instructional Design. Using a practice-oriented approach and real-world case studies, students will gain experience applying instructional design principles to solve learner-centered design challenges.EDUC 6410Trends and Issues in Learning Experience Design and Learner Equity(3)This course uses an experience-design lens to explore trends and issues in learning experience design. Students will be introduced to Learner Experience Design (LXD) principles and processes as examine strategies to create more equitable student outcomes in learning design.  Students will research, read, reflect and discuss problems and viable solutions for current issues in learning design.EDUC 6420Learning Experience and Interaction Design Studio(3)This course examines a range of theories, skills, and processes for designing and developing interactive, learner-centered educational materials. Using a practice-oriented approach and real-world case studies, students will learn to apply Learner Experience Design (LXD) principles and process to create authentic, inclusive learning experiences using an interactive design studio while developing their design thinking skills.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6410.EDUC 6430Emerging Technologies and Learning Perspectives(3)This course examines emerging learning technologies and their application to learning and education. Some included technologies are the Internet of Things (IoT), Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual Reality (VR), Artificial Intelligence (AI), and Machine Learning (ML). Emerging learning theories and methodologies, and emerging learning behavior models for inclusive learning design in fast-changing, innovated digital spaces are explored. Using case studies, students will research, read, reflect and discuss real-world learning challenges and viable solutions founded in emerging learning technologies and theories.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6400and6410.EDUC 6440Learning Technology Principles and Applications(3)This course is an introduction to learning technologies, surveying current tools, applications, software, and hardware, and Learner Experience Design applications, including interactive media, video, editing, and digital design.  Students gain hands-on experience in identifying, creating, implementing, and evaluating learning technologies for inclusive learner-centered design. Using a practice-oriented approach and real-world case studies, students will begin to learn design thinking to change the way we engage diversified learners in online education.EDUC 6450Game-Based Learning Technology and Design(3)This course investigates game-based learning (GBL) and gamification applications, including game-design elements and principles, GBL technologies, gaming literacies, gaming models, simulations, immersive learning and virtual reality, and augmented reality from a diversified learner experience lens, including adult learners in higher education and corporate environments and K-12. Students explore the potential of current GBL and analyze the role of game-based learning from a historical perspective.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6400or 5410.EDUC 6460Mobile Learning Design and Studio(3)This course investigates mobile learning principles and strategies through the lens of learning equity. Students will research, read, reflect and discuss mobile learning applications in online learning.  Using a practice-oriented approach and real-world case studies, students will apply Learner Experience Design principles and process to their own mobile learning design project using an interactive design studio.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6400or6410.EDUC 6500Assessment and Evaluation of Students with Disabilities(3)This course introduces students to the collection and use of comprehensive assessment and evaluation data to ensure the success of students with high incidence disabilities. Students analyze frameworks for assessment and evaluation to underscore the sequence, procedures, and decisions involved in a comprehensive process. Topics include collecting data through multiple measures to drive informed decisions about identification, eligibility, IEP creation, services, and instruction; it also targets curriculum resources and intervention strategies with an emphasis on tiered planning and implementation. At the completion of this course, students identify, understand, and implement evidence-based practices on data usage with a particular emphasis on using data to design instructional and behavioral interventions necessary for building on individual strengths and addressing the needs of students with disabilities.  Graduate students will deepen these understandings of assessment and evaluation through extensive review of the latest research from the field and apply these understandings in a culminating task based on the assessment and evaluation of two actual students found in a case study scenario.EDUC 6510Collaborative Teaming(3)This course focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary to form productive, collaborative relationships with the adults in a student with disabilities ecosystem:  family, para-educators, general educators, building leaders, and service providers. Emphasis is placed on building and maintaining relationships with all stakeholders while adhering to federal and state policies and effectively implementing special education programming.  Course topics include culturally-proficient collaboration in schools, community systems and families; vision setting and high expectations for all students; emotional intelligent partnership; and transforming historical and philosophical perspectives and practices of education students with differing needs.  At the completion of this course, students describe, plan for, and implement best practices in team collaboration and communication for the benefit of students.  Graduate students also conduct a literature review on collaborative and participatory practices in education and design a model and set of recommendations for improving teaming models in a real-life context.EDUC 6520Instructional Practices in Special Education(3)This course examines various ways of assessing student knowledge and identifying and implementing evidence-based practices to increase the success of students with disabilities in mathematics, social studies, science, and English language arts, primarily in grades 3-12. Students learn best practices for understanding and evaluating curricular demands, monitoring student progress in content-area courses, providing tiered supports and accommodations in teaching, using assessment and grading alternatives, and incorporating the principles of explicit and strategic instruction to design methods that promote and enhance content-area learning. This course also presents the needs for specialized services to meet specific learning and/or behavioral needs and provides the basic frameworks for conceptualizing best practices, including the principles of Universal Design for Learning and Multi-Tier Systems of Support (MTSS). At the completion of this course, students evaluate and design initial instructional accommodations and interventions for meeting the needs of students with high incidence disabilities. Graduate students extend their understandings by researching broad-based instructional practices that benefit diverse learners in whole group instruction; they also conduct an audit of classroom instruction across a grade level or content area in an actual school and devise practical recommendations based on their findings.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6500.EDUC 6530Reading and Literacy(3)This course provides in-depth learning experiences targeting literacy. Students learn about assessment tools and assessment systems used in tiered support frameworks to determine the required intensity of literacy support and instruction needed by children/adolescents with high-incidence special education needs. The course also provides evidence-based instructional approaches and effective curricula that have been developed for students with disabilities and students who are struggling in general. At the completion of this course, students evaluate and design specialized literacy instruction tailored to the specific strengths and needs of their students.  Graduate students conduct and write a review of related research, survey a living reading and literacy school environment, and create recommendations aimed at improving practice overall.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6500.EDUC 6540Functional Behavioral Assessment and Individualized Behavioral Intervention Planning(3)This course provides a framework for individualizing behavioral supports using a functional behavioral paradigm. Students learn theory, core concepts, and applied methods involved in functional behavioral assessment that translate into evidence-based prevention and intervention planning. Special attention is given to the student-in-context: Ecological systems, intraindividual factors such as trauma, medical considerations, and family phenomenologies, and school initiatives such as multi-tiered systems of support. At the completion of the course, participants conduct functional behavioral assessments, create evidence-based and individualized support plans, and critique the theory and practice of this specific and specialized form of behavioral support planning vis-a-vis cultural, theoretical, and practical experiences of themselves as practitioners and the students they serve.  Graduate students explicate research and then design and deliver a professional development seminar to schools they identify as needing improvement in the area of FBA and behavioral intervention planning.  Note: This course is part of the required course sequence for the elementary grades “mild-moderate add-on special education certification” in the state of Louisiana.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6520.EDUC 6550Self-Determination and Transition(3)This course develops students' proficiency in career development and self-determined transition planning and education for persons with disabilities from middle school through adulthood. Emphasis is placed on IDEA requirements for transition services, career development, and best practices in the transition processes; key time and IEP team decision points to foster positive life outcomes; transition services assessment; secondary special education curricular implications; career development and transition service needs; collaborative services in schools and communities to promote quality transition services; and best practices in student-centered transition planning.  At the completion of this course, educators develop a background and framework for fostering post-secondary success necessary for leading IEP teams through the development of student-centered plan focused on the knowledge and skills necessary for successful transition to college, career, and independent living.  Graduate students explicate research and then design and deliver a professional development seminar to schools they identify as needing improvement in the area of FBA and behavioral intervention planning.  Note: This course is part of the required course sequence for the grades 4-8 and 6-12 “mild-moderate add-on special education certification” in the state of Louisiana.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6520.EDUC 6560Fundamentals of Instructional Technology for Students with Disabilities(3)This course explores the use of technology, services, and accessible design principles that serve to support students with disabilities in meeting their goals.  Students are introduced to instructional technology, explore a variety of low- and high-technology tools and services, and apply accessible design principles to create effective and meaningful instruction for all students. At the conclusion of this course, students apply a problem-solving approach for identifying and selecting appropriate technological tools and services based on student need; they also identify and plan for instructional practices that provide access and promote success for students with disabilities.  Graduate students conduct a review of related research for to identify the most promising practices in assistive technology and then design and deliver a professional development seminar to schools they identify as needing improvement in the area of FBA and behavioral intervention planning.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6520.EDUC 6790Residency I (Student) Elementary Education(3)The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience of the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency.  In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university, and engage in action research over their course of study.  A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Pre-Requisites: all courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 6791Residency II (Student)(3)The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university, and engage in action research over their course of study.  A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Prerequisites: All courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 6792Residency I (Practitioner)(3)The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education 27 program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. I In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university, and engage in action research over their course of study.  When a candidate completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Prerequisites: All courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 6793Residency II (Practitioner)(3)The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university, and engage in action research over their course of study.  When a candidate completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Prerequisites: All courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 6810The Craft of Teaching(3)This course examines (a) the process by which students learn and teachers teach including the instructional design process of Understanding by Design (UbD) and effective teaching strategies; (b) the importance of assessment and student work analysis on the learning and teaching process. Teacher candidates will learn to plan lessons and units that are focused, organized, and develop student understanding of knowledge or skills. Candidates will learn to design assessments that provide feedback to students on their learning and to teachers on the impact of their teaching. Candidates will example theories of behavior management and strategies for organizing and maintaining an optimal learning environment. Project requirements and readings will emphasize grade levels and content field for which pre-service teachers are seeking certification. The study begun in this course lays the foundation for understanding the learning and teaching process which later Methods classes will further develop.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6000.EDUC 6820Foundations of Emergent Literacy(3)Emergent Literacy provides an introduction to children’s speech and language development, appropriate methodologies for building the communication skills of young children, the overall scope of emergent literacy issues - with a heavy emphasis on phonemic awareness/phonics, and guided practice using children's books and appropriate technology for young readers in the classroom. Evidence-based reading research will form the foundation when studying effective strategies for teaching reading.EDUC 6822Foundations of Elementary Literacy(3)Foundations of Elementary Literacy provides an introduction to children's speech and language development, appropriate methodologies for building the communication skills of children, the overall scope of elementary literacy issues emphasizing the five pillars of literacy: phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, vocabulary, and comprehension. Evidence-based reading research will form the foundation when studying effective strategies for teaching r4eading including and guided reading practice using multi-genre grade-level texts and appropriate technology for readers in the elementary classroom. Those students taking this course at a graduate level will examine recent theory and research regarding elementary literacy and translate the findings into practical strategies to increase language skills in the classroom. Students will analyze assessments and use the data to create instructional plans that address the skills that need improvement to ultimately obtain knowledge mastery. Students will design and present a professional development workshop for early elementary teachers that describe how to determine appropriate literacy strategies and their associated assessments.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6000.EDUC 6830Early Childhood Reading Methods(3)This course addresses evidence-based approaches for the effective teaching of literacy. The five essential components of reading instruction, as identified by the National Reading Panel, of this class include: Phonemic awareness skills, phonics skills, reading fluency, vocabulary development, and comprehension strategies. Additionally, the concepts of reading and writing connections, assessment, and content area skills and strategies needed for reading to learn, thinking and written discourse are emphasized. This course includes a practicum placement in a school setting. The Education Candidate observes and learns to create rich literate environments which foster reading, writing, speaking, listening and technological literacies through the integration of their foundation knowledge, use of instructional practices, approaches and methods, curriculum materials, and the appropriate use of assessment.EDUC 6832Elementary Education Reading Methods(3)This course addresses evidence-based approaches for the effective teaching of literacy in 1st-5th grade. The five essential components of reading instruction, as identified by the National Reading Panel, of this class include: phonemic awareness skills, phonics skills, reading fluency, vocabulary development, and comprehension strategies. Additionally, reading and writing assessment, content-area skills and strategies for reading to learn, and the reading-writing-thinking connection are emphasized. This course includes a practicum placement in a school setting. The teacher candidate observes and learns to create rich literate environments which foster reading, writing, speaking, listening and technological literacies through the integration of their foundation knowledge, use of instructional practices, approaches and methods, curriculum materials, and the appropriate use of assessment. For those taking this course at a graduate level, an emphasis is placed on examining research and data that support reading instructional models that address the five essential components of reading instruction. This course includes a practicum placement in a school setting.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6822.EDUC 6834Early Childhood Reading Instruction for All Learners(3)Students will learn key reading concepts effective for all children including those with language delays, dyslexia, and other reading difficulties. The course will provide students with knowledge about reading screeners and continuous diagnostic assessments that inform differentiated reading instruction and monitor progress. Students will learn how to deliver structured literacy lessons that include the five components of reading according to the National Reading Panel, with an emphasis on phonology and other essential components like sound-symbol association, oral language, fluency, and writing. The course will provide students with resources that teach reading using explicit instruction and daily student-teacher interaction to monitor reading progression. For those taking this course at a graduate level, the emphasis is placed on remediating a small group of students with reading difficulties. Graduate students administer assessments to identify their students’ reading difficulties, create and implement a research-informed reading remediation plan, utilize progress monitoring to adjust to their students’ needs, and present their
completed work.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6830.EDUC 6836Elementary Reading Instruction for All Learners(3)Students will learn key reading concepts effective for all 1st-5th grade children including those with language delays, dyslexia, and other reading difficulties. The course will provide students with knowledge about reading screeners and continuous diagnostic assessments that will inform differentiated reading instruction and monitor progress. Students will learn how to deliver structured and differentiated literacy lessons that include the five components of reading according to the National Reading Panel, with an emphasis on fluency, vocabulary, comprehension, and writing. The course will provide students with resources that teach reading using explicit instruction and daily student-teacher interaction to monitor reading progression. For those taking this course at a graduate level, the emphasis will be placed on remediating a small group of students with reading difficulties. Graduate students will administer assessments to identify their students' reading difficulties, create and implement a research-informed reading remediation plan, utilize progress monitoring to adjust to their students' needs, and present their completed work.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6832.EDUC 6840Teaching Social Studies in ECE(3)This course will focus on the pedagogy and methods of teaching social studies in the PreK-3rd grade classroom. This course covers methods for teaching developmentally appropriate social studies (civics, history, geography, and economics) and the ten NCSS themes. Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology, centers, and assessment. Students will work with manipulatives and technology to explore social studies, participate in a
community of learners, solve problems, and learn ways to teach this content to children. For those taking this course at a graduate level, students will learn how to teach social studies as part of an inquiry-based learning experience and demonstrate this type of learning by constructing a social studies unit.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6830.EDUC 6850Teaching Science in Early Childhood Classroom(3)This course will prepare prospective teachers to teach science in the early childhood setting (preschool through 3rd grade). This course covers methods for teaching developmentally appropriate topics in science (earth space science, physical science, life science, and engineering/technology. Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, inquiry-based learning and performance-based assessment. Students will work with manipulatives and technology to explore science, solve problems, and learn ways to teach the three dimensions of science to children. They will also practice creating and refining age-appropriate unit and lesson plans based on the Understanding by Design model (Wiggins & McTighe). For those taking this course at a graduate level, students have opportunities to utilize best practices to inform lesson planning and review research-based pedagogical strategies to teach diverse learners. Students will have the opportunity to research and find curriculum with lessons that teach concepts and skills through case studies, practical tasks, and reflective activities. Students will be able to create a comprehensive list of curricula materials. Then critique an elementary age-appropriate science lesson that examines problems in real-world settings.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6830.EDUC 6860Teaching Mathematics in ECE(3)This course will prepare prospective teachers to teach mathematics in the early childhood setting (preschool through 3rd grade). This course covers both mathematical content and methods for teaching developmentally appropriate topics in arithmetic, geometry, algebra, probability and statistics, and measurement, data collection and analysis. Emphasis will be placed on developmentally appropriate instruction and active learning strategies, including the use of technology in instruction, and on performance-based assessment. Students work with manipulatives and technology to explore mathematics, solve problems, and learn ways to teach mathematics content to children. Course includes practice in creating and refining age-appropriate unit and lesson plans based on Understanding by Design model (Wiggins & McTighe). For those taking this course at the graduate level, understanding how to cite research and data that support findings will be a key objective. The students will review literature about best mathematical practices, content, and knowledge at a level in which they can teach others. They will complete a course assignment that involves designing a professional development math portfolio as a guide for elementary teachers. The essential elements of instruction, assessment, grouping strategies, and effective questioning techniques will be key components in the portfolio. In addition, the portfolio will explicitly state how to differentiate math instruction to meet the needs of all learners.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6830.EDUC 6870Childhood Development(3)This course presents the stages of childhood development. Emphasis is placed on development which enables one to reach physical, mental, emotional, and social maturity. Students will learn how child development intersects with teaching and learning. Research and data on current practices and philosophies are compared and discussed. Assessment of learning environments from an equity perspective will inform students how childhood development may wax and wane throughout developmental milestones.EDUC 6890Residency I_Student_ECE(3)Part one. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience of the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State's guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university, and engage in action research over their course of study. A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 - Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 6000,6810,6060,6910,6970,6980and6900) and (EDUC 6920,6930,6940,6950or6960).EDUC 6891Residency II_Student_ECE(3)Part two. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency.  In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university, and engage in action research over their course of study.  A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Pre-Requisites: all courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of 23 Director.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 6000,6810,6060,6910,6970,6980and6900) and (EDUC 6920,6930,6940,6950or6960).EDUC 6892Residency I_Practitioner_ECE(3)The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university, and engage in action research over their course of study. When a candidate completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Pre-Requisites: all courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 6000,6810,6060,6820,6830,6834,6840,6850,6860and6870).EDUC 6893Residency II_Practitioner_ECE(3)Part two. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. When a candidate completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by
a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Pre-Requisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 6000,6810,6060,6820,6830,6834,6840,6850,6860,6870and6891).EDUC 6894Residency I (Student) - Elementary Education(3)Part one. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience of the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. UG Pre-Requisites: all courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.
MAT Prerequisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 6895Residency II (Student) - Elementary Education(3)Part two. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. UG Pre-Requisites: all courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.
MAT Prerequisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 6896Residency II (Practitioner) - Elementary Education(3)Part one. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education 27 program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. When a candidate completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. UG Pre-Requisites: all courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.
MAT Prerequisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 6897Residency II (Practitioner) - Elementary Education(3)Part two. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Early Childhood Education program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the ECE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. When a candidate 14 completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. UG Pre-Requisites: all courses in the program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.
MAT Prerequisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.EDUC 6900Secondary Methods I: General(3)This course focuses on prominent methodological issues and the development of core teaching skills. Students will analyze different instructional methods; design comprehensive unit and lesson plans using the Understanding by Design model; develop integrated technology strategies and develop skills in differentiated instruction. Emphasis is placed on development of skills of self-analysis, reflection, and research-based decision-making. Students will interpret, refine, and demonstrate their understanding and mastery of general teaching practices through thirty hours of field experience in a middle or high school setting. The course is designed with an emphasis on the practicum; therefore, it is organized to provide time for one-on-one conferences in which the professor will advise on upcoming lessons and give detailed feedback on classroom observations. The regular class sessions are designed to be experiential, in which students will learn and participate in specific lessons and activities to use for classroom teaching, employing a variety of materials. For those taking this course at a graduate level, students will research current issues in methods of teaching and learning and generate a comparative analysis paper describing how and why changes in secondary pedagogy occurred in the past seven years. Students will include the purposes of assessments with supporting research.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6810.EDUC 6910Reading Methods Secondary Education(3)This course addresses evidence-based reading research while studying the effective teaching of content area literacy. An emphasis will be placed on developing adaptations of well-known strategies in addressing disciplinary ways of thinking, reading, and writing in the content areas. Additionally, students will understand and be able to apply the disciplinary literacies associated with vocabulary and comprehension in a variety of disciplines by utilizing assessments and new literacies needed for Twenty-First Century content area instruction. For those taking this course at a graduate level, the emphasis will be placed on inquiry of content area literacy. Students will research content literacy, extrapolate effective strategies for teaching reading in a content area, and share an analysis on those that are most effective.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6810.EDUC 6920Methods II Social Studies(3)This is a seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for secondary teacher candidates to acquire skills in teaching methodologies and strategies specific to secondary social studies instruction. Topics include organization of subject matter, weekly and unit lesson planning, development of assessments, utilizing information technology for instruction, and working with diverse populations of students. Course activities include professional development workshops, teaching in a secondary classroom, discussion/reflections, demonstration of effective use of standards documents, inquiry activities, and a review of effective pedagogical and school improvement literature. A total of 30 clock hours of field experiences are required in the classroom setting. For those taking this course at the graduate level, students will read research about 15 strategies necessary for success in teaching culturally and linguistically diverse students with diverse learning needs and strengths. Using data and research, students will develop inquiry-based curriculum activities addressing community-based issues relevant to New Orleans. The design of the activities is within the context of social studies and aligned to LA Standards.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6900.EDUC 6930Methods II Science(3)This is a seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for secondary teacher candidates to acquire skills in teaching methodologies and strategies specific to the science content area in which they are seeking certification. Topics include organization of subject matter, weekly and unit lesson planning using the Understanding by Design model, development of assessments, utilizing information technology for instruction, and working with diverse populations of students. Course activities include teaching in a field site classroom, discussion/reflections, and demonstration of effective use of standards documents, inquiry activities and a review of effective pedagogical literature. A total of 30 clock hours of field experiences are required in the classroom setting. Two professional development experiences are also required. For those taking this course at the graduate level, this course will include a research and analysis component. Students will research their specific science content area and examine the alignment of the Next Generation Science Standards and LA Content Standards. The information gained from these standards will be used to develop a science scope and sequence that provides a crosswalk of the national and state standards, including gaps that may exist in the current LA Science Standards. Students will share this crosswalk with peers and facilitate a discussion about teaching standards through inquiry and problem-solving across all specific sciences.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6900.EDUC 6940Methods II English(3)In this seminar and practicum course, candidates will study the various components of the English Language Arts curriculum along with a broad range of research-based instructional strategies, key theories and debates in the field of English education. Topics include strategies for integrating all language arts into the curriculum, lesson planning based on the Understanding by Design (UbD) model, and development of effective assessments. Students will learn how to utilize information technology for instruction, how to align curriculum with state and national literacy standards, and how to integrate strategies for working with diverse populations of students. Course activities include observations in secondary (6-12) English classrooms, development of lesson plans, teaching in a field-site classroom, discussion/reflections, inquiry activities, and a review of effective pedagogical literature. A total of 30 clock hours of field experiences and two professional development experiences are required. For those taking this course at a graduate level, students will have the opportunity to expand on a review of effective pedagogical literature regarding English Language Arts instruction. They will analyze the findings and data that provide the rationale of effective pedagogy. Students will research pedagogies of different points of view and identify similarities and differences while determining how both pedagogies are considered effective.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6900.EDUC 6950Methods II Mathematics(3)This is a seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for secondary teacher candidates to acquire skills in teaching methodologies and strategies specific to the math content area in which they are seeking certification. Topics include organization of subject matter, weekly and unit lesson planning using the Understanding by Design model, development of assessments, utilizing information technology for instruction, and working with diverse populations of students. Course activities include teaching in a field site classroom, discussion/reflections, and demonstration of effective use of standards documents, inquiry activities and a review of effective pedagogical literature. A total of 30 clock hours of field experiences are required in the classroom setting. Two professional development experiences are also required. For those taking this course at a graduate level, students will demonstrate their understanding of the secondary mathematics curriculum by using effective pedagogical literature to develop and facilitate a professional development session to peers. The professional development module and facilitation is expected to validate the student’s competencies at the level of instructional implementation in one’s own classroom and others that may require modifications.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6900.EDUC 6960Methods II Foreign Language(3)This is a seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for secondary teacher candidates to acquire skills in teaching methodologies and strategies specific to foreign language instruction (Latin, French, Spanish, Italian, or German). Topics include lesson planning based on the Understanding by Design (UbD) model, and development of effective assessments, utilizing information technology for instruction, and working with diverse populations of students. Course activities include observations in secondary (6-12) foreign language classrooms, development of lesson plans, teaching in a field-site classroom, discussion/reflections, inquiry activities, and a review of effective pedagogical literature. A total of 30 clock hours of field experiences and two professional development experiences are required. For those taking this course at a graduate level, students will make connections between theories and classroom practice through additional research. The course will ask students to review the literature regarding meaningful assessments and instruction used in classrooms to teach specific language skills. Students will select a specific language and develop a unit that teachers can use in the secondary classroom. The student must include proficiency-based instruction and include strategies for social justice and equity.Prerequisite(s):EDUC 6900.EDUC 6970Adolescent Development(3)This course provides an overview of the important developmental changes adolescents experience as they transition to adulthood. Throughout the course students will learn theories related to adolescent development. Students will learn about the risks prevalent for adolescents and why they are more evident during this stage. The course will outline preventions and interventions that support adolescents and how social context is relevant. Students will explore research-based practices that support all adolescents who may struggle in a school setting.EDUC 6980Effective Reading Instruction for Developing Adolescent Readers(3)This course provides a comprehensive overview of the current knowledge on best practices for teaching older students with reading difficulties. The focus of reading instruction for adolescent readers is word study, fluency, vocabulary, and motivation. The course materials will describe in depth these critical skills adolescent readers need to become proficient readers. Students will study research-based practices that help struggling students improve their skills in the areas listed above. They will present a culturally diverse professional development plan for teachers and school personnel to allocate time and resources so that students receive appropriate, engaging interventions that improve their overall reading. For those taking this course at a graduate level, the emphasis will be placed on remediating a small group of students with reading difficulties. Graduate students will administer assessments to identify their students’ reading difficulties, create and implement a research-informed reading remediation plan, utilize progress monitoring to adjust to their students’ needs, and present their completed workEDUC 6990Residency I_Student_SE(3)Part one. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Secondary Education (SE) program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the SE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor 17 teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under the supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. Candidates who have completed at least three years of classroom teaching may be eligible for a waiver from the residency. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Pre-Requisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 6000,6810,6060,6970,6910,6980and6900) and (EDUC 6920,6930,6940,6950or6960).EDUC 6991Residency II_Student_SE(3)Part two. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Secondary Education (SE) program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the SE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. A candidate may complete residency as a student teacher or practitioner resident. When a candidate completes residency as a practitioner resident, they must be hired as a full-time teacher in a school and remain under the supervision of a mentor teacher and university faculty member. Candidates who have completed at least three years of classroom teaching may be eligible for a waiver from the residency. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. MAT Pre-Requisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 6000,6810,6060,6970,6910,6980and6900and (EDUC 6920) orEDUC 6930,6940,6950or6960) andEDUC 6990.EDUC 6992Residency I_Practitioner_SE(3)Part one. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Secondary Education (SE) program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the SE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. When a candidate completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. Candidates who have completed at least three years of classroom teaching may be eligible for a waiver from residency. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Pre-Requisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 6000,6810,6060,6970,6910,6980and6900) and (EDUC 6920,6930,6940,6950or6960).EDUC 6993Residency II_Practitioner_SE(3)Part two. The yearlong residency (2 semesters) is the culminating experience the Secondary Education (SE) program. It occurs only upon completion of all professional coursework associated with the SE specialization. In a school setting, residents demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and dispositions they have learned throughout the program for which they are seeking certification and/or degree. Residents observe, assess, plan, teach using differentiated instruction, reflect on teaching practices, and analyze the impact on student achievement while adhering to all the State’s guidelines for residency. In addition, residents meet with their mentor teacher and university faculty member throughout the semester, attend a series of seminars, and participate in professional development opportunities offered by the university. When a candidate completes residency as a student teacher resident, they are directly supervised and supported by a classroom mentor teacher and a university faculty member. Candidates who have completed at least three years of classroom teaching may be eligible for a waiver from the residency. All residency requirements are within the guidelines of Bulletin 746 – Louisiana Standards for State Certification of School Personnel approved by BESE. Pre-Requisites: all courses in MAT program preceding residency courses or permission of Director.Prerequisite(s):(EDUC 6000,6810,6060,6970,6910,6980and6900) and (EDUC 6920,6930,6940,6950or6960) andEDUC 6992.EDUC 7790Topics in Education Research(1-3)Education research toward completion of master's degree.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 7791Topics in Education Research(1-3)Education research toward completion of master's degree.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 7792Topics in Education Research(1-3)Education research toward completion of master's degree.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 7793Topics in Education Research(1-3)Education research toward completion of master's degree.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 7794Topics in Education Research(1-3)Education research toward completion of master's degree.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 7795Topics in Education Research(1-3)Education research toward completion of master's degree.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 7796Topics in Education Research(1-3)Education research toward completion of master's degree.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 7797Topics in Education Research(1-3)Education research toward completion of master's degree.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 7798Topics in Education Research(1-3)Education research toward completion of master's degree.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99EDUC 7990Education Research(1-3)Education research toward completion of master's degree. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99