FREN 0100France Summer Program, Paris(0)France Summer Program, Paris.FREN 1010Elementary French I(4)An introduction to the five skills of language acquisition: reading, writing, listening, speaking, and cultural understanding.
This course should be taken beforeFREN 1020, and according to the French placement guidelines: https://liberalarts.tulane.edu/departments/french-italian/academics/undergrad/french/placementFREN 1020Elementary French II(4)A continuation of the objectives presented in French I. This course should be taken afterFREN 1010and beforeFREN 2030, and according to the French placement guidelines: https://liberalarts.tulane.edu/departments/french-italian/academics/undergrad/french/placementFREN 1290Semester Abroad(1-20)Semester abroad. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 1890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 1891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 1940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 1000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99FREN 2030Intermediate French(4)Intermediate French language with emphasis on reading, conversation, and composition. This course should be taken afterFREN 1020and beforeFREN 3150, and according to the French placement guidelines:
https://liberalarts.tulane.edu/departments/french-italian/academics/undergrad/french/placementFREN 2040Advanced French(3)This course aims to reinforce intercultural communicative skills in French toward the advanced proficiency level. Students will practice the written and spoken interpretive, interpersonal, and presentational modes of communication, study the linguistic systems of the varieties of French, and develop their intercultural competence and knowledge of Francophone cultures. This course should be taken afterFREN 2030and before FREN 3000-level courses, and according to the French placement guidelines: https://liberalarts.tulane.edu/departments/french-italian/academics/undergrad/french/placementFREN 2130Intermediate French Conversation(2)Intermediate French conversation.FREN 2390Semester Abroad(1-20)Semester abroad. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 2890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Corequisite(s):FREN 2030.Maximum Hours:99FREN 2940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 2000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99FREN 2990Foreign Language Exemption(0)Foreign Language Exemption.FREN 3010Topics French Cultr Stud(3)Topics in French Cultural Studies. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 3011Topics French Cultr Stud(3)Topics in French Cultural Studies.FREN 3030French and/or Francophone Women Writers in Translation(3)Introduction to works by major French and/or Francophone women writers in translation. The course may focus on works by contemporary women writers or examine texts from a range of historical periods. The issues raised in this course may include: the material conditions in which women have written; problems of publication; the specificity of women's writing; the conceptualization of gender; gender, race, and class.FREN 3040African and Caribbean Literature(3)An introduction to African and Caribbean literature, cinema, and other forms of cultural production and an exploration of movements and concepts such as Négritude, Créolité, diaspora, and hybridity. Readings and discussion entirely in English.FREN 3050Literature In Exile(3,4)A presentation of recent works by writers born in the French-speaking former colonies of Africa and the Caribbean, but living and writing elsewhere (e.g., Paris, Montreal, Brooklyn). Some of the questions the course will endeavor to answer are: What happens to cultures when they are displaced? How does one conceive of home when in exile, and is it possible to return? Is rootlessness a source of creativity, or a detriment to it? Reading and discussions entirely in English.FREN 3060Business French(3)Practical reading, writing, speaking, and listening comprehension skills at an advanced level will be developed toward the use of French for business purposes. Emphasis will be placed on oral and written communication in simulated business situations.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3150or minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 3000 Level Placement'.FREN 3110French Cinema(3)French film from its origins in 1895 to the present. Early film, technology, and physiology: the Lumière, Marey, Méliès; classic French cinema: Renoir, Gance. The French New Wave: Resnais, Truffaut, Godard, and others. Avant-garde, surrealist, and science.FREN 3120Paris, City of Immigrants(3)Paris is often thought of as the quintessentially French city, the epicenter of government and culture in the highly centralized nation that is France. As a common French saying has it, "Paris, c'est la France" - "Paris is France." Yet for generations the face of Paris has been shaped not just by the French of the Hexagon, but by diverse groups of immigrants, ranging from East European emigres to inhabitants of France's former colonies in Africa, the Caribbean, and Southeast Asia. Indeed, immigration has made Paris so cosmopolitan that we might ask to what degree it truly embodies "Frenchness" today. Through course readings, lectures, and visits to key Parisian sites such as the Museum of the History of Immigration and immigrant neighborhoods such as Belleville and la Goutte d'Or, we will examine the most important waves of immigration to Paris and how they have helped to make the city what it is today.FREN 3140French Phonetics(3)The study of the sound system of French for improving pronunciation. Students learn the fundamental concepts of phonetics, phonemics, and contrastive analysis while also practicing French pronunciation and learning to convert French spelling into phonetic transcription using the International Phonetic Alphabet. Independent work in the language laboratory is an important component of the course.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3150or minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 3000 Level Placement'.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3150or minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 3000 Level Placement'.FREN 3150Advanced French Through Media I(3)This course is designed to reinforce communicative skills in French at the advanced level through exposure to authentic written, visual, and oral documents dealing with French and Francophone cultures. The course offers a thorough review of French grammar, vocabulary, and pronunciation, while introducing students to media analysis. This course should be taken afterFREN 2030, and according to the French placement guidelines: https://liberalarts.tulane.edu/departments/french-italian/academics/undergrad/french/placementFREN 3160Advanced French Through Media II(3)This course is a continuation of the objectives set inFREN 3150: it is designed to reinforce communicative skills in French at the advanced level through exposure to authentic written, visual, and oral documents dealing with French and Francophone cultures. The course offers a thorough review of French grammar, vocabulary, and pronunciation, while further developing students' media analysis skills.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3150or minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 3160Placement'.FREN 3150may be taken concurrently.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3150*or minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 3160Placement'.*May be taken concurrently.FREN 3170Topics in French and Francophone Literature(3)Students will improve their listening comprehension of French, improve their oral performance, and gain familiarity with aspects of French and Francophone cultures through art, cinema, photography, comics, social media, and performance (theater, dance, music).Prerequisite(s):FREN 3160*or minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 3170Placement'.*May be taken concurrently.Course Limit:2FREN 3180French for World Affairs(3)"French for World Affairs" is designed to improve students' listening, reading, speaking, and writing skills in French, with a special emphasis on current global affairs. Students will engage with various French media sources to explore and analyze current events, political policies, cultural practices, and historical contexts within the French-speaking world.
The course aims to enhance students' French listening and comprehension skills by utilizing a wide variety of audio-visual resources. It encourages critical thinking and discussion of global events, fostering a broader understanding of the world. Students will also develop insights into the complexities and dynamics of contemporary issues within the Francophone community, all while exploring the rich cultural diversity within French-speaking regions and anchoring their understanding in the relevant historical contexts that have shaped France and the Francophone world.
By providing a comprehensive and in-depth exploration of French language and world affairs, this course bridges linguistic proficiency with a nuanced understanding of global issues. It is suitable for students with interests ranging from diplomacy and international business to French culture and global politics.Prerequisite(s):FREN 2040.FREN 3210Topics in French and Francophone Literature(3)The course provides students with the requisite tools of literary interpretation and analysis. By reading closely a variety of literary texts drawn from different periods and genres, students will become familiar with the fundamentals of criticism and poetics.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3170,3180, or 3250 minimum score of PASS 'FREN 3210Placement'.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3170,3170,3250, minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 3000 Level Placement' or minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 3210Placement'.Course Limit:2FREN 3250Topics in French Society & Institutions(3-4)An introduction to French society and the institutions that shaped it. Using periodization to define particular historical movements such as the Gallo-Roman period, the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, Enlightenment, revolutionary France, and the Third Republic, the course focuses on historical and architectural sites in Paris and the provinces to consider issues of French identity.Prerequisite(s):minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 3250Placement' orFREN 3160.Course Limit:2FREN 3330Special Topics in French Literature in Translation(3)Subject varies with instructor. May treat a particular literary period, a genre, or a subject, e.g., fatal love in French literature.FREN 3350The Secrets of French Grammar(3)This course offers a systematic review of French grammar and delves into the nuances and intricacies of the French language. Students will horn their communicative skills with a focus on accuracy and style and will learn about the sociological and geographical specificities of French varieties. An optional Service Learning component is offered for this course.Prerequisite(s):FREN 2040.FREN 3710Revitalizing French in Louisiana(3)This course is designed to reinforce communicative skills at the advanced level by playing an active part in the efforts to revitalize French in Louisiana. Students will learn about Francophone identities in Louisiana, about their language and culture, and how to analyze and produce a variety of media products that will be shared with the Francophone communities in Louisiana to promote and grow Louisianan Francophonie. This course has a mandatory 20-hour Service Learning component for which students will be working with actors of French revitalization in Louisiana.Prerequisite(s):FREN 2040.FREN 3890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Corequisite(s):FREN 3150.Maximum Hours:99FREN 3891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 3940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 3000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99FREN 4010French Short Story(4)Selected stories by significant authors of the genre: Marie de France, Bonaventure des Periers, Charles Perrault, Voltaire, Guy de Maupassant, Albert Camus. The emphasis in this course will be placed on reading comprehension, vocabulary building, and development of oral and written proficiency as well as on the application of the analytic skills learned in French 3210.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4050Teaching French(3)“Teaching French” is a seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for Teaching Assistants (TAs) and advanced undergraduates considering a career in teaching to acquire skills in teaching methodologies and strategies specific to teaching French.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4060Professional French(3)This course is an advanced course in professional French. It is designed for French majors or for students in the 5-year combined B.A. and M.A. program in French.  To gain further professional experience, students at the 6000 level have the possibility to undertake an optional 60-hour, 3-credit internship (FREN 6560) with a local French or French-related company.  Prerequisite:FREN 3150.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3150.FREN 4080French Around the World(3)A linguistic survey of the Francophone world, with particular focus on French outside of France. The course begins with a historical look at the spread of French within and beyond Europe, then examines in turn the major French-speaking populations of Europe, North America, the Caribbean, Africa, the Indian Ocean, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific. While linguistic variation in each region will be considered, the main emphasis will be on sociolinguistic issues such as bilingualism and language contact, language politics and planning, linguistic insecurity, and language in education. Option for the major and minor in French.
Prerequisite(s): minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 4000 Level Placement' orFREN 4010.Prerequisite(s):minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 4000 Level Placement' orFREN 4010.FREN 4100French In Louisiana(3)An introduction to the French-related language varieties spoken in Louisiana: Cajun, Creole, and Colonial French. Examines the history of their implantation and development in Louisiana, their basic structural features, and the main sociolinguistic issues surrounding their use. Attention will also be given to language planning measures currently being taken to revitalize the French language in the state.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4110Field Research on French in Louisiana(3)Students will interview and record speakers of Cajun, Creole, and Colonial French in various parts of Louisiana. Working individually and in groups, they will then transcribe the recordings for purposes of linguistic description and analysis.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3140.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3140.Corequisite(s):FREN 4891.FREN 4160Translation Theory & Practice(3)This course will provide students with the tools to translate a variety of types of texts (mostly literary, but also legal, journalistic, commercial, etc.) and to introduce them to translation theory as it relates to the problem of translating cultural difference and to the issues of originality, authorship, and the ownership of the text. Students will translate from French to English as well as from English to French. Course taught principally in English. Reading knowledge of French required.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4180French Poetry(3)Develop literacy in poetic genres, historical movements, figurative language, and interpretation.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4210History of French Language(3)This course traces the history of the development of the French language from Latin into francien of the 12th and 13th centuries. It also serves as an introduction to Old French (francien). 
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3150.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3150.FREN 4220Medieval French Literature(3)Readings in modern translation of such works as La Chanson de Roland, the lais of Marie de France, Chrétien de Troyes'  Lancelot, Béroul's  Tristan, Aucassin et Nicolette and the poetry of François Villon.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4320Renaissance Literature(3)A survey of representative works of outstanding authors of the period: Marot, Rabelais, Ronsard, Du Bellay, Montaigne, and D'Aubigné.  Both poetry and prose will be studied against the backdrop of the history and civilization of the Renaissance in France.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4400Sustainable Development in the Francophone World(3)Sustainable development in the Francophone World, taught in both French and English, focuses on political, economic, and social aspects of development in francophone developing areas, especially in Africa. We also discuss disaster relief issues with a focus on Haiti. Topics of discussion include: historical and political heritage; French and European development practices in terms of trade, investment, and foreign aid; entrepreneurship as a tool of development; and the impact of globalization and migration on the regions in question. We examine development programs in areas such as poverty, food security, education, human rights and gender equity, health, and the environment, and assess the performance and prospects of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (2000-2015) and Sustainable Development Goals (2016-2030).Prerequisite(s):PSDV 2400and (FREN 3060,3110,3140,3150,3160,3210,3210,3350or3710).FREN 441017th-Century French Literature(3)Currents of French Classicism, with particular emphasis on Moralists and aesthetics. Authors include Boileau, Descartes, Pascal, La Bruyère, La Fontaine, and La Rochefoucauld.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 442017th-Century Drama(3)Corneille, Molière, Racine. Utilizes videos of Comédie-Française performances. Development of critical sense through discussion.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4510Topics In 18th-Century Literature(3)Advanced study of 18th-century literature and culture focusing on a specific theme, genre, or problematic. In addition to addressing a specific theme or area of study, this course offers fairly broad coverage of the canonical works of the period. A writing practicum is available in conjunction with this course. Taught in French unless otherwise noted in the Schedule of Classes.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 452018th-Century Literature(3)An introduction to the Enlightenment through readings in the experimental genres developed in the 18th century. Authors include Marivaux, Prévost, Montesquieu, Rousseau, Voltaire, Diderot, and Beaumarchais.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 4010.Prerequisite(s):FREN 4010.FREN 4530Islam and Enlightenment(3)An introduction to representations of Islam in Enlightenment
French literature, the role of of Muslim thinkers in shaping the European Enlightenment and the possibility of an Enlightenment in current Muslim thought.Prerequisite(s):FREN 4010.FREN 4560Internship(1-3)An experiential learning process coupled with pertinent academic course work. Registration is completed in the academic department sponsoring the internship on TUTOR. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 4570Internship(1-6)An experiential learning process coupled with pertinent academic course work. Registration is completed in the academic department sponsoring the internship on TUTOR. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 462019th-Century Novel(3)Representative novels of such authors as Chateaubriand, Constant, Stael, Stendhal, Balzac, Sand, Hugo, Nerval, Flaubert, the Goncourt brothers, Zola. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Prerequisite(s): minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 4000 Level Placement' orFREN 4010.Prerequisite(s):minimum score of PASS in 'FREN 4000 Level Placement' orFREN 4010.Maximum Hours:99FREN 472020th-Century French Literature(3)An exploration of the prose and poetic inventions of the 20th century, read within the contexts of contemporary literary and art movements (modernisms, surrealisms, formalisms), political and social history, and French post-structuralist theory.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 4010.Prerequisite(s):FREN 4010.FREN 474020th-Century Drama(3)An exploration of French theater writing and practice from the turn-of-the-century avant-garde through the new theater forms invented across the century, including the so-called Theater of the Absurd, film scenarios, and post-modern. Readings include works by Jarry, Artaud, Cocteau, Sartre, Ionesco, Beckett, Genet, Duras, and Cixous.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4750The Avant-Garde(3)The history and theory of the avant-garde, from the movements of the early 20th century to today. We will explore the art, performances, poetics and manifestos of the so-called "historic" avant-gardes of a century ago, including the well-known antics of  Dada (Zurich and Paris), Surrealist practices based first in Paris and eventually all over the world, Italian Futurism, visual arts and cinema (Cubism, etc.) and the London-based groups of writers working in Imagism and Vorticism.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4800Survey of Francophone Literature(3)A lecture and discussion course on the historical and aesthetic evolution of the Francophone literature of Africa, the Maghreb, and the Caribbean. The creative works will be explored in the socio-political framework of colonization and decolonization as well as in terms of their own intrinsic qualities.
Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4810Special Topics(3)Special Topics in French. Note:  A writing practicum is available. French majors may use it to fulfill the college intensive-writing requirement. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 4811Special Topics(3)Special Topics in FrenchFREN 4820Special Topics(3)Special topics in French. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 4830Francophone Literature of the Maghreb(3)An introduction to contemporary culture and literature written in French in the three countries of the Maghreb (Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco) from the eve of independence to our global, transnational era. Themes include exile and cosmopolitanism, language, nationalism, memory, the relation to France,
feminism, trauma and amnesia, terrorism. Course is taught in French.Prerequisite(s):FREN 4010.FREN 4831Writing Algeria(3)This course explores representations of trauma and processes of memorialization in postcolonial Algeria. Through a study of literary, cinematic, and cultural texts, we will examine multiple challenges to FLN-sponsored readings of national history. Starting in the years directly preceding the 1962 Independence, these texts and cultural objects produce new sites of memory running counter to official narratives of the history of colonization and the myth of the national liberation struggle.Prerequisite(s):FREN 4010.FREN 4840Philosophy, Francophone Literature, and Politics: Imagination and Institutions(3)This course examines the role of the imagination in the constitution and renewal of institutions as those modalities of institutions are represented in Francophone literature and in postcolonial politics. The course draws on literary, philosophical, and political texts.Prerequisite(s):FREN 3210.FREN 4850Morocco in Film and Literature(3)In this course, we will read texts and discuss films that stage questions of relations between North Africa, Africa, the Middle East and US/Europe; colonial and post-independence art, migration and exile; evolving Islam; Jewish and Berber minority identities; circulation and dislocation in contemporary global and local cultures. While we will be reading, screening, and discussing in English, your competence in Arabic, French, Spanish, Hebrew or Berber can be helpful as you research your midterm and final papers for the course. We will be paying attention to the history and theory of literature and film as well as the specificity of the examples from Morocco. Films and readings are often paired in order to cover the politics, social and artistic movements and events of historical periods, as well as of contemporary cultural production.FREN 4870Women Writers of the Arab World(3)This seminar proposes to investigate the ways in which the related discourses of nationalism, Islam and feminism can fruitfully intersect to illuminate the corpus of women’s literature from the former French colonies and Protectorates in the Arab world. With an emphasis on issues of social justice, citizenship, and feminism, both locally and transnationally, we will interrogate the ways in which literature mediates the construction of women as historical subjects.Prerequisite(s):FREN 4010.FREN 4890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 4891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 4910Independent Study FREN Ling(1-3)Subject varies with instructor. Principally reading and research. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 4920Independent Studies(1-4)Subject varies with instructor. Principally reading and research. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 4990Honors Thesis(3)Honors ThesisFREN 5000Honors Thesis(4)Honors Thesis.FREN 5190Semester Abroad(1-20)Semester abroad. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 5380Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Junior year abroad. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 5390Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Junior year abroad. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 5940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 5000 level. Departmental approval required.Maximum Hours:99FREN 5950Special Topics in French(3,4)Content is consistently broad in scope and either thematic or generic in orientation, e.g., theme of the quest from the Middle Ages to the 20th century; the evolution of genre, i.e., the lyric poem, from its medieval beginnings to the present. Offered each fall. Required for the major. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Prerequisite(s):FREN 4010.Maximum Hours:99FREN 5990French for Reading Knowledge(0)French for Reading Knowledge.FREN 6010Graduate Writing Workshop(3)This 3-credit course helps students enrolled in the graduate program of the Department of French and Italian sharpen their skills in academic writing by studying the argumentation and style of French- and English-language critical texts, independently developing an article-length scholarly work of publishable quality for a specific journal, and workshopping drafts of this project.FREN 6020MA Thesis Project(3)This course is for 5th-year MA 4+1 students in French only. It is compulsory both semesters for those 5th -year MA 4+1 students in French. The project must be a full thesis or a portfolio of the equivalent length and thoroughness.Course Limit:2FREN 6050Teaching French(3)Teaching French is a seminar and practicum course providing opportunities for Teaching Assistants (TAs) and advanced undergraduates considering a career in teaching to acquire skills in teaching methodologies and strategies specific to teaching French.FREN 6060Professional French(3)FREN 6060-01 is an advanced course in Professional French. It is designed for French majors or for students in the 5-year combined B.A. and M.A. program in French. Prerequisites:FREN 4010.FREN 6070Survey of French Linguistics(3)This course introduces students to the field of linguistics as applied to French. Taking a broad approach, we will examine the major structural components of the language—phonological, morphosyntactic, and lexical—as well as sociolinguistic matters such as variation in the language (based on region, social group, style, or other factors), French speakers’ attitudes towards their language, and the question of a linguistic norm in French. No prior study of linguistics is required for this course.FREN 6085Pidgins and Creoles(3)An overview of the world's pidgin and creole languages and a survey of the theories of their origins.FREN 6100French In Louisiana(3)An introduction to the French-related language varieties spoken in Louisiana: Cajun, Creole and Colonial French. Examines the history of their implantation and development in Louisiana, their basic structural features, and the main sociolinguistic issues surrounding their use. Attention will also be given to language planning measures currently being taken to revitalize the French language in the state.FREN 6110Field Research on French in Louisiana(3)Students will interview and record speakers of Cajun, Creole, and Colonial French in various parts of Louisiana. Working individually and in groups, they will then transcribe the recordings for purposes of linguistic description and analysis.FREN 6150Introduction to Critical Theory(3)Exploration of some of the principal linguistic, anthropological, psychoanalytic, philosophical, and sociological currents informing recent approaches of literature and culture.FREN 6160Translation Theory and Practice(3)This course will provide students with the tools to translate a variety of types of texts (mostly literary, but also legal, journalistic, commercial, etc.) and to introduce them to translation theory as it relates to the problem of translating cultural difference and to the issues of originality, authorship, and the ownership of the text. Students will translate from French to English as well as from English to French. Course taught principally in English. Reading knowledge of French required.FREN 6180French Poetry(3)Develop literacy in poetic genres, historical movements, figurative language, and interpretation. In French.FREN 6210History of French Language(3)The development of Latin into French and subsequent evolution of the latter through the Old French period.FREN 6220Medieval French Literature(3)Readings in modern translation of such works as La Chanson de Roland, the lais of Marie de France, Chrétien de Troyes' Lancelot, Béroul's Tristan, Aucassin et Nicolette and the poetry of François Villon.FREN 6310Renaissance Poetry & Drama(3)Careful analysis of the works of the major poets: Marot, the Ecole Lyonnaise, the Pléiade, and D'Aubigny. Special attention is devoted to lyric poetry and to the defense of the French language as a viable literary medium. Special attention is given to poetic violence as experienced in desire, national conquest, and religious strife, so that verse is defined in tension with poetic form. The course privileges Renaissance sonnets, while also including the genres of elegy, dizain, epic, epigrams and political satire.FREN 6320Renaissance Literature(3)A survey of representative works of outstanding authors of the period: Marot, Rabelais, Ronsard, Du Bellay, Montaigne, and D'Aubigné. Both poetry and prose will be studied against the backdrop of the history and civilization of the Renaissance in France.FREN 641017th-Century French Literature(3)Currents of French Classicism, with particular emphasis on Moralists and aesthetics. Authors include Boileau, Descartes, Pascal, La Bruyère, La Fontaine, and La Rochefoucauld.FREN 6510Topics in 18th-Century Literature(3)Advanced study of 18th-century literature and culture focusing on a specific theme, genre, or problematic. In addition to addressing a specific theme or area of study, this course offers fairly broad coverage of the canonical works of the period. A writing practicum is available in conjunction with this course. Taught in French unless otherwise noted in the Schedule of Classes.FREN 652018th-Century Literature(3)An introduction to the Enlightenment through readings in the experimental genres developed in the 18th century. Authors include Marivaux, Prévost, Montesquieu, Rousseau, Voltaire, Diderot, and Beaumarchais.FREN 6530Islam and Enlightenment(3)An introduction to representations of Islam in Enlightenment French literature, the role of of Muslim thinkers in shaping the European Enlightenment and the possibility of an Enlightenment in current Muslim thought.FREN 661019th-Century Prose(3)Prose writers of the first half of the 19th century.  Emphasis on the social and political context of post-revolutionary France, theories of fiction and the concurrent rise of the novel, history, and autobiography.FREN 662019th-Century Novel(3)Representative novels of such authors as Chateaubriand, Constant, Stael, Stendhal, Balzac, Sand, Hugo, Nerval, Flaubert, the Goncourt, Zola. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.FREN 663019th-Century Poetry(3)Romantic, Parnassian, and Symbolist movements, with emphasis on Lamartine, Hugo, Musset, Vigny, Gautier, Heredia, Baudelaire, Verlaine, Rimbaud, Mallarmé, and Laforgue.FREN 6650Romanticism(3)Study of the Romantic Movement and authors such as Bernardin de Saint-Pierre, Stael, Chateaubriand, Desbordes-Valmore, Laurantine, Balzac, Tristan, and Sand.FREN 672020th-Century French Literature(3)An exploration of the prose and poetic inventions of the 20th century, read within the contexts of contemporary literary and art movements (modernisms surrealisms, formalisms), political and social history, and French post-structuralist theory.FREN 6750The Avant-Garde(3)The history and theory of the avant-garde, from the movements of the early 20th century to today. We will explore the art, performances, poetics and manifestos of the so-called "historic" avant-gardes of a century ago, including the well-known antics of Dada (Zurich and Paris), Surrealist practices based first in Paris and eventually all over the world, Italian Futurism, visual arts and cinema (Cubism, etc.) and the London-based groups of writers working in Imagism and Vorticism.FREN 6800Survey of Francophone Literature(3)A lecture and discussion course on the historical and aesthetic evolution of the Francophone literature of Africa, the Maghreb, and the Caribbean. The creative works will be explored in the socio-political framework of colonization and decolonization as well as in terms of their own intrinsic qualities.FREN 6810Special Topics(3,4)Special Topics in French. Note:  A writing practicum is available. French majors may use it to fulfill the college intensive-writing requirement. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 6811Special Topics(3)Special Topics in French.FREN 6812Special Topics(3)Special topics in French.FREN 6820Special Topics(3)Special topics in French. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.FREN 6830Francophone Literature of the Maghreb(3)An introduction to contemporary culture and literature written in French in the three countries of the Maghreb (Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco) from the eve of independence to our global, transnational era. Themes include exile and cosmopolitanism, language, nationalism, memory, the relation to France,
feminism, trauma and amnesia, terrorism. In French.FREN 6831Writing Algeria(3)This course explores representations of trauma and processes of memorialization in postcolonial Algeria. Through a study of literary, cinematic, and cultural texts, we will examine multiple challenges to FLN-sponsored readings of national history. Starting in the years directly preceding the 1962 Independence, these texts and cultural objects produce new sites of memory running counter to official narratives of the history of colonization and the myth of the national liberation struggle.FREN 6850Morocco in Film and Literature(3)In this course, we will read texts and discuss films that stage questions of relations between North Africa, Africa. the Middle East and US/Europe; colonial and post-independence art, migration and exile; evolving Islam; Jewish and Berber minority identities; circulation and dislocation in contemporary global and local cultures. While we will be reading, screening, and discussing in English, your competence in Arabic, French, Spanish, Hebrew or Berber can be helpful as you research your midterm and final papers for the course. We will be paying attention to the history and theory of literature and film as well as the specificity of the examples from Morocco. Films and readings are often paired in order to cover the politics, social and artistic movements and events of historical periods, as well as of contemporary cultural production.FREN 6860Francophone Art, Literature, and Politics(3)This course examines the status of representation in three fields: art, literature, and politics. We will consider the relation of those three fields by reading selected essays of Adorno, Bourdieu, Bachelard, Foucault and Walter Benjamin as well as representative Francophone novels.FREN 6870Women Writers of the Arab World(3)This seminar proposes to investigate the ways in which the related discourses of nationalism, Islam and feminism can fruitfully intersect to illuminate the corpus of women’s literature from the former French colonies and Protectorates in the Arab world. With an emphasis on issues of social justice, citizenship, and feminism, both locally and transnationally, we will interrogate the ways in which literature mediates the construction of women as historical subjects.FREN 6890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 6910Independent Study FREN  Ling(1-3)Subject varies with instructor. Principally reading and research. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 6920Independent Study FREN Lit(1-3)Subject varies with instructor. Primarily reading and research. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 7230Studies in the Middle Ages(3)Studies in the Middle Ages.FREN 737016th-Century Studies(3)16th-Century Studies.FREN 751018th-Century Studies(3)18th-Century Studies.FREN 767019th-Century Studies(3)19th-Century Studies.FREN 777020th-Century French Literature(3)20th-Century French Literature.FREN 7800Topics Francophone Lit(3)Topics in Francophone Literature.Course Limit:3FREN 9980Master's Research(0)Master's Research. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99FREN 9990Dissertation Research(0)Dissertation Research. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99