GREK 1010Elementary Greek(4)The study of ancient Greek language offers students an exciting opportunity to gain a nuanced sense of how language works as well as develop the skills to read Homer, Plato, the New Testament, etc. without the filter of translation. Designed to get students reading Attic Greek with facility, this course follows a grammar-based approach that moves students from learning the alphabet to reading real Greek as quickly as possible. This course requires no language background.
Prerequisite(s): minimum score of PASS in 'GREK 1010Placement'.GREK 1020Intermediate Greek(4)This course is a continuation ofGREK 1010in which students will continue to acquire greater facility in reading unabridged passages of ancient Greek. Prerequisite:GREK 1010or equivalent.Prerequisite(s):minimum score of PASS in 'GREK 1020Placement' orGREK 1010.GREK 1290Semester Abroad(1-20)Study abroad course in ancient Greek language. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 1940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 1000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99GREK 2030Attic Prose(4)This course focuses on reading selections from a range of prose authors, e.g., Plato, Herodotus, Xenophon. In addition to improving their proficiency in reading Greek, students develop further familiarity with prose styles and begin to acquire skills in literary, historical, or philosophical analysis. Prerequisite:GREK 1020or equivalent.Prerequisite(s):minimum score of PASS in 'GREK 2030Placement' orGREK 1020.GREK 2390Semester Abroad(1-20)Study abroad in ancient Greek language. Department approval required. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 2940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 2000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99GREK 3070Select Authors(3)This course focuses on reading selections from a range of authors in prose and/or poetry. In addition to improving their proficiency in reading Greek, students develop further familiarity with prose styles and begin to acquire skills in literary, historical, or philosophical analysis. Prerequisite:GREK 2030or equivalent.  Course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Prerequisite(s):GREK 2030.Course Limit:2GREK 3910Independent Study(1-3)Students wishing to maintain and improve their skill in reading Greek may enroll in a reading course for one, two, or three credits. Requires departmental approval and an appropriate faculty supervisor. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 3920Independent Study(1-3)Students wishing to maintain and improve their skill in reading Greek may enroll in a reading course for one, two, or three credits. Requires departmental approval and an appropriate faculty supervisor. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 3940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 3000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99GREK 4030Greek Tragedy(3)This course offers students the opportunity to study Athenian tragedy through an in-depth study of the work of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and/or Euripides. Seminars will usually focus on a single author and work, but in some instances will investigate important themes across multiple works to give students a nuanced understanding of Athenian tragedy in comparative perspective. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99GREK 4040Greek Comedy(3)Comedy of the fifth century B.C.E., known as Old Comedy, focused on political issues, while Greek comedy of the fourth century B.C.E., known as New Comedy, focused on domestic entanglements. Eleven plays of Aristophanes survive from Old Comedy, and large fragments of seven plays by Menander survive from New Comedy. Students will study one or more of these plays at the discretion of the instructor. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Course Limit:99GREK 4050Plato(3)In this course students will study one or more works of Plato to gain a sense of his style and argumentation, as well as his place in ancient literary, cultural, political, and/or philosophical traditions. Work(s) read will be chosen at the discretion of the instructor. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Course Limit:99GREK 4060Greek Historians(3)This course offers students an in-depth study of one or more major figures in the Greek historiographical tradition, e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, Xenophon. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Course Limit:99GREK 4070Greek Lyric Poetry(3)Greek Lyric includes a wide range of non-hexameter poetry composed throughout the ancient Greek world in a variety of genres and dialects from the 7th century onward. This category of poetry includes laments and celebrations for every occasion from war to love. Major authors include Alcman, Sappho, Theognis, Solon, and Pindar. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Course Limit:99GREK 4080Greek Orators(3)Greek orators of the fifth and fourth centuries B.C.E. wrote speeches for the law courts, for political assemblies, and for display. Readings for this course will be selected from the speeches of Gorgias, Antiphon, Andocides, Lysias, Isokrates, Demosthenes and Aischines. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Course Limit:99GREK 4090Greek Epic Poetry(3)Readings in Greek epic poetry, typically Homer or Hesiod, but other authors may be included, depending upon the desires and needs of the students enrolled. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Course Limit:99GREK 4110Special Authors(3)Readings from ancient Greek authors not covered in other courses. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Prerequisite(s):GREK 2030.Course Limit:99GREK 4910Independent Study(1-3)Students wishing to maintain and improve their skill in reading Greek may enroll in a reading course for one, two, or three credits. Requires departmental approval and an appropriate faculty supervisor. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Prerequisite(s):GREK 2030.Maximum Hours:99GREK 4920Independent Study(1-3)Students wishing to maintain and improve their skill in reading Greek may enroll in a reading course for one, two, or three credits. Requires departmental approval and an appropriate faculty supervisor. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 4990Honors Thesis(3)Course reserved for students writing an honors thesis for a major in Greek. Requires approval of the department and an appropriate faculty director.Prerequisite(s):GREK 2030.GREK 5000Honors Thesis(4)Course reserved for students writing an honors thesis for a major in Greek. Requires approval of the department and an appropriate faculty director.GREK 5190Semester Abroad(1-20)Study abroad course in ancient Greek language. Requires department approval. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 5370Washington Semester(1-20)For transfer of credit. Department approval required. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 5380Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Study abroad course in ancient Greek language. Requires department approval. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 5390Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Study abroad course in ancient Greek language. Requires department approval. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 5940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 5000 level. Departmental approval required.Maximum Hours:99GREK 6030Greek Tragedy(3)This course offers students the opportunity to study Athenian tragedy through an in-depth study of the work of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and/or Euripides. Seminars will usually focus on a single author and work, but in some instances will investigate important themes across multiple works to give students a nuanced understanding of Athenian tragedy in comparative perspective. Can be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 6040Greek Comedy(3)Comedy of the fifth century B.C.E., known as Old Comedy, focused on political issues, while Greek comedy of the fourth century B.C.E., known as New Comedy, focused on domestic entanglements. Eleven plays of Aristophanes survive from Old Comedy, and large fragements of seven plays by Menander survive from New Comedy. Several comedies of Aristophanes and selected fragments of Menander will be read in this course in the original Greek. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99GREK 6050Plato(3)In this course students will study one or more works of Plato to gain a sense of his style and argumentation, as well as his place in ancient literary, cultural, political, and/or philosophical traditions. Work(s) read will be chosen at the discretion of the instructor. Can be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 6060Greek Historians(3)This course offers students an in-depth study of one or more major figures in the Greek historiographical tradition, e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, Xenophon. Can be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 6070Greek Lyric Poetry(3)Greek Lyric includes a wide range of non-hexameter poetry composed throughout the ancient Greek world in a variety of genres and dialects from the 7th century onward. This category of poetry includes laments and celebrations for every occasion from war to love. Major authors include Alcman, Sappho, Theognis, Solon, and Pindar. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99GREK 6080Greek Orators(3)Greek orators of the fifth and fourth centuries B.C.E. wrote speeches for the law courts, for political assemblies, and for display. Readings for this course will be selected from the speeches of Gorgias, Antiphon, Andocides, Lysias, Isokrates, Demosthenes, and Aischines. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99GREK 6090Greek Epic Poetry(3)Greek Epic originated in the archaic period and is the oldest surviving Greek poetry (e.g., Homer, Hesiod, and the Homeric Hymns). It remained one of the most influential genres through to the Byzantine period. Students in this seminar will investigate the epic tradition through the careful study of one or more text. Can be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99GREK 6110Special Authors(3)Readings from ancient Greek authors not covered in other courses. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Prerequisite(s):GREK 2030.Maximum Hours:99GREK 6910Independent Study(1-3)Students wishing to maintain and improve their skill in reading Greek may enroll in a reading course for one, two, or three credits. Requires departmental approval and an appropriate faculty supervisor.Prerequisite(s):GREK 2030.GREK 6920Independent Study(1-3)Students wishing to maintain and improve their skill in reading Greek may enroll in a reading course for one, two, or three credits. Requires departmental approval and an appropriate faculty supervisor.GREK 7040Selected Readings(1-9)Students wishing to maintain and improve their skill in reading Greek may enroll in a reading course for up to nine credits. Requires Graduate Student Status,  departmental approval, and an appropriate faculty supervisor.GREK 9980Masters Research(0)Course reserved for students writing a thesis for the Master's degree in ancient Greek. Requires approval of the department and an appropriate faculty director. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99