INTU 1000Hist &Phil of Higher Education(3)This course examines the social and political history of higher education with special emphasis on the transformation of women and the college landscape from the early 20th century to present day. Using historical and literary frameworks to generate and address and answer questions about college women today, this course will provide Newcomb Scholars with the opportunity to examine the social and political culture of various decades and its influence on college culture, women's colleges, women in college, and narratives about college life.INTU 1010Special Topics(0-4)Maximum Hours:99INTU 1011Special Topics(0-4)Maximum Hours:99INTU 1890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Corequisite(s):INTU 1000.Maximum Hours:99INTU 2000Women Leading Change(4)The Harvard Business School originated and developed the phenomenon of the teaching case to simulate business experience in novices, to create a concrete vehicle for applying abstract theories to real world situations, and to engender engaged classroom discussion while fostering critical thinking skills as students were forced to wrestle with actual business dilemmas that had no easy answer.  Cases marry learning about real world policy and organizational problems with critical thinking, abstract reasoning, and theorizing valued in all academic disciplines. The objective of this course is to engage students in drawing leadership lessons from the real-world dilemmas of women leading organizations to bring about social change.  The course will also teach how to write and evaluate the usefulness of cases; each student will write a case linked to her field of study which engages the concepts of gender and leadership.  The course teaches critical thinking and problem solving through immersion in the stories of women leaders.  The course outcomes are an enhanced appreciation of the dilemmas that are encountered by women leading change; the ability to evaluate and compose case studies at the intersection of leadership and gender; and the demonstration of strategic thinking and problem-solving skill.

Prerequisite(s):INTU 1000.Prerequisite(s):INTU 1000.INTU 2020Wellness & Resilience for College & Beyond(1)College is an exciting and stressful time for everyone. The increased freedom and independence are both exciting and daunting, leading many students to struggle in new ways or with emotions that seem to have increased in intensity. Conversely, research has shown that individuals who develop and use resilience strategies and emotion regulation skills (such as opposite action, relaxation strategies, mindfulness, and practicing gratitude) as well as build positive routines (for example, good eating and sleep habits, daily exercising, scheduling fun activities) are more likely to be effective in their job roles, involved in strong relationships, physically and mentally healthy, and satisfied with their lives overall.INTU 2500Digital Scholarship(1)This course examines practices for designing research communications across a variety of digital mediums. It also examines how gender, often intersecting with race, class, and sexuality, affects the interpretation of research in digital forums and the treatment of researchers online. This interdisciplinary course will engage in a variety of fields including data visualization, digital media practices, technology studies, gender studies, and digital scholarship. Seminar discussions will include examining creative methods for developing digital research projects, ethical considerations when promoting research through digital mediums, and critically analyzing computational methods in research that supports social justice and gender/racial equity. As praxis, students will design, storyboard, create, peer review, revise and present digital research products that include visual, audio, and narrative components. All technical skill-levels are welcome.Prerequisite(s):INTU 1000.INTU 3000Feminist Epistemologies and Research Design(3)In this course, students will read and discuss key texts that outline philosophies and methods of feminist knowledge production. Students will engage with foundational feminist epistemologies, such as standpoint theory, situated knowledges, and intersectionality, to understand the complex relationships between gender, race, class, and other categories that shape the distribution of power both within and outside the academy. They will explore research methods across fields while examining important debates about a researcher’s role and responsibilities to her/his/their subjects and the public. Research ethics regarding data collection, interpretation, and dissemination will be discussed through the lens of feminist and antiracist commitments. Applying these interdisciplinary theories of knowledge production, students will develop a research proposal. During weekly writing workshops, students will draft, peer-review, and revise portions of a research proposal that address the question, methods, literature review, and significance of that project. Prerequisite(s):INTU 2000.Prerequisite(s):INTU 2000.Course Limit:1INTU 3010Global Culture Awareness(1)Course Limit:99INTU 3020Cross Cultural Engagement(1)Prerequisite(s):INTU 3010.Course Limit:99INTU 3030Post Study Abroad Re-Entry(1)Prerequisite(s):INTU 3020.Course Limit:99INTU 3040Community Engaged Conservation Research Design(3)This 3 credit course builds student capacity to conceptualize, design and articulate community engaged research projects. Along with research design, the course trains students to think and communicate across disciplines via readings, assignments and workshops. Over the course of the semester, students will develop research questions and methodological approaches to produce an ethical, independent research proposal to investigate a problem or question related to rainforest conservation. In addition, students will learn to provide feedback and constructive criticism to the work of their peers and engage with critical perspectives on issues that arise in community engaged conservation. The expectation is that students will go on to implement the research projects that they develop in the context of this course. This course fulfills the Newcomb-Tulane College intensive writing requirement and provides an optional service-learning component.Prerequisite(s):EBIO 3780.INTU 3890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Corequisite(s):INTU 3030.Maximum Hours:99INTU 3891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99INTU 3910Special Topics(0-4)Maximum Hours:99INTU 3920Special Topics(0-3)Maximum Hours:99INTU 4000Newcomb Research Seminar(1)This course is designed to provide support and resources from the professor for students in the Newcomb Scholars Program to complete their independent research project. In this course, Newcomb Scholars will incorporate what they have researched and written in the previous seminars, finalize their research question, determine the appropriate research methods, and begin to answer that question in a comprehensive and systematic way that would be recognized by the relevant scholarly community as constituting original and important research. Each Scholar is expected to understand the work that has previously been done in her field and find a place for her research in that body of knowledge. Students will use their skills of analysis, criticism, and synthesis to address or respond to any relevant issues in their fields of study. Each student will present their research project at a campus conference in the Spring semester.
Prerequisite(s):INTU 3000.Prerequisite(s):INTU 3000.INTU 4310LSAT Review(1)INTU 4340MCAT Review(1)INTU 4560Study Abroad Internship(1-4)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99INTU 5380Junior Year Abroad(1-6)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99INTU 6850Reproductive Rights, Law, and Policy(1)This course will focus on the Louisiana Legislative Session as a means of understanding the legislative process, civic engagement with that process, and policy and legal concerns that proposed legislation can raise – all within the context of understanding the legal framework surrounding abortion access and reproductive rights. The course will include legal and policy analysis of the most significant U.S. Supreme Court cases involving abortion rights, as well as an overview of the statutory and regulatory landscape applicable to abortion in Louisiana. With that backdrop, the course will then take a hands-on approach to the Louisiana Legislative Session, focusing on proposed bills that will impact reproductive justice. Guest speakers will help students to understand the policy implications – both intended and unintended – related to the proposed bills, as well as other legislation proposed or passed during recent legislative sessions.INTU 7000Year of Service Fall(0-12)Maximum Hours:99INTU 7010Year of Service Spring(0-12)