GPSO 6010Medical Physiology(6)A major physiology course taught by various faculty in the Physiology Department. This course covers most important concepts in medical physiology, along with updated information and in-depth discussion in all fields of interest related to physiological function.GPSO 6060Experimental Physiol Lab(2)This course provides students’ hands-on experiences to perform the physiological experiments with human body, animals and computer simulation modeling systems.GPSO 6250Membrane Physiology(2)The course covers the major structure and function of ion channels, the basic physiological mechanisms of voltage gated ion channels, and transmitter gated ion channels. Also a brief consideration will also be given to certain pathophysiological mechanisms leading to disease.GPSO 7175Med Terminology(3)This on-line course provides definition and appropriate use of common medical terminology and abbreviations. It is especially beneficial for students who are newly committed in medical sciences and who have foreign culture background.GPSO 7180Selected Topics(1-5)Self-study under the direction of a faculty mentor in a selected topic in physiology. A final report is required.GPSO 7320Renal Physiology(3)This course provides updated information regarding renal function and renal/hormonal control of blood pressure. The roles of kidney function in hypertension, diabetes mellitus and other human diseases are also covered.GPSO 7350Translational Physiology(2)Seminars in physiology present cutting edge research scientists of national prominence and Tulane Faculty. A one-page report is required at the end of each seminar.Course Limit:2GPSO 7560Signal Transduction/Hormone Ac(2)This course provided current molecular mechanisms for cellular signal transduction pathways and hormone action including membrane receptors and downstream pathways, second messenger systems, receptor-ion channels, kinase/phosphatases, extracellular matrix signaling, signaling and cell death, Wnt signaling pathways and nuclear receptor signaling.GPSO 7600Integrative Cardiovascular Physiology(3)This advanced course covers in-depth topics in cardiovascular physiology and its association with other systems to regulate body function. The objective of the course is to provide the students with comprehensive knowledge of cardiac and vascular function and its regulation by neural, hormonal and other systems.GPSO 7910Seminar Physiology(1)Seminars in physiology present cutting edge research scientists of national prominence and Tulane Faculty. A one-page report is required at the end of each seminar.Course Limit:2GPSO 7980Research(3)Research thesis under the direction of faculty. Students are required to independently choose topic, conduct experiments, analyze and report data. A concise thesis based on experimental data is also required.GPSO 7990Research(1-9)Research thesis under the direction of faculty. Students are required to independently choose topic, conduct experiments, analyze and report data. A concise thesis based on experimental data is also required.
Prerequisite(s):GPSO 7980.Prerequisite(s):GPSO 7980.GPSO 9990Dissertation Research(0)Research thesis under the direction of faculty. Students are required to independently choose topic, conduct experiments, analyze and report data. A concise thesis based on experimental data is also required. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99