AERO 1010Heritage and Values of the USAF I(1)"Heritage and Values," is a survey course designed to introduce students to the United States Air and Space Forces and provides an overview of the basic characteristics, missions, and organization of the Air and Space Forces. 
Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.AERO 1011Heritage and Values of the USAF I LAB(0)This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.AERO 1020Heritage and Values of the USAF II(1)This is a survey course designed to introduce students to the United States Air and Space Forces and provides an overview of the basic characteristics, missions, and organization of the Air and Space Forces.  Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences. Corequisite(s):AERO 1021.Corequisite(s):AERO 1021.AERO 1021Heritage and Values of the USAF II LAB(0)This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander. Corequisite(s):AERO 1020Corequisite(s):AERO 1020.AERO 1210Evol Usaf Air&Space Pow(1)AERO 1220Air Power History II(1)AERO 1290Semester Abroad(1-20)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99AERO 1940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 1000 level. Departmental approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99AERO 2010Team and Leadership Fundamentals I(1)"Team and Leadership Fundamentals" provides a fundamental understanding of both leadership and team building. The lessons and course flow are designed to prepare students for field training and leadership positions in the detachment.  Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.AERO 2011Team and Leadership Fundamentals I LAB(0)This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.AERO 2020Team and Leadership Fundamentals II(1)This course provides a fundamental understanding of both leadership and team building. The lessons and course flow are designed to prepare students for field training and leadership positions in the detachment. Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences. Corequisite(s):AERO 2021.Corequisite(s):AERO 2021.AERO 2021Team and Leadership Fundamentals II LAB(0)This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander. Corequisite(s):AERO 2020.Corequisite(s):AERO 2020.AERO 2390Semester Abroad(1-20)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99AERO 2940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 2000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99AERO 3010Leading People and Effective Communication I(3)This course utilizes student’s field training experience to take a more in-depth look at leadership. Special emphasis is placed on enhancing communication skills, and why that is important as a leader. Students have an opportunity to try out these leadership and management techniques in a supervised environment as juniors and seniors.  Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.AERO 3011Leading People and Effective Communication I LAB(0)This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.AERO 3020Leading People and Effective Communication II(3)utilizes student’s field training experience to take a more in-depth look at leadership. Special emphasis is placed on enhancing communication skills, and why that is important as a leader. Students have an opportunity to try out these leadership and management techniques in a supervised environment as juniors and seniors. Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences. Corequisite(s):AERO 3021.Corequisite(s):AERO 3021.AERO 3021Leading People and Effective Communication II(0)This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander. Corequisite(s):AERO 3020.Corequisite(s):AERO 3020.AERO 4010National Security/Commissioning Preparation I(3)This course is designed for college seniors and gives them the foundation to understand their role as military officers and how they are directly tied to our National Security Strategy. It is an overview of the complex social and political issues facing the military profession and requires a measure of sophistication commensurate with the senior college level. Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.AERO 4011National Security/Commissioning Preparation I LAB(0)This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.AERO 4020National Security/Commissioning Preparation II(3)This course is designed for college seniors and gives them the foundation to understand their role as military officers and how they are directly tied to our National Security Strategy. It is an overview of the complex social and political issues facing the military profession and requires a measure of sophistication commensurate with the senior college level. Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences. Corequisite(s):AERO 4021.Corequisite(s):AERO 4021.AERO 4021National Security/Commissioning Preparation II LAB(0)This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander. Corequisite(s):AERO 4020.Corequisite(s):AERO 4020.AERO 5190Semester Abroad(1-20)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99AERO 5380Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99AERO 5390Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99AERO 5940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 5000 level. Departmental approval required.Maximum Hours:99