SISE 1000Becoming a Changemaker(3)This introductory course gives students an appreciation for the field of social innovation, including key concepts such as understanding systems change, assessing organizational mission, and measuring social value. The course considers the historical perspective of the field to inform our current understanding of solving social and environmental problems.SISE 1940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 1000 level. Departmental approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99SISE 2010Intro Social Innov/Entrepreneu(3)SISE 2010is an introductory class that gives students an appreciation for the fields of social innovation and social entrepreneurship (SISE), including key concepts such as understanding systems change, assessing organizational mission, and measuring social value. The course considers the historical perspective of the field to inform our current understanding of solving social and environmental problems. Further, we look at cases of social entrepreneurs, intrapreneurs, innovators, and visionaries who are coming up with novel methods to address a variety of social issues while utilizing different organizational forms and operating in international, domestic, and local contexts.SISE 2011Understanding Complex Systems(3)In the 21st century, our society faces many wicked problems like climate change, health disparities, refugee crises, and more. This course provides students with the tools to gain a deeper understanding of these challenges. This class helps student balance objective and subjective ways of knowing about the dynamics of social problems within complex systems. Students will use systems thinking to understand the key connections among elements of a social problem that form root causes in the systems structure and/or perpetuate an unjust equilibrium in society. By the end of the course, students will be able to use this understanding of how change happens in order to envision new possibilities and their role in systems transformation.SISE 2020Intro to Business(3)This course highlights the importance of understanding business planning and economic concepts for social entrepreneurial organizations. The course will assess different business models for social impact organizations and how these organizations integrate their social mission with their business strategies. Business planning is essential for any organization, whether it is a business, a social entrepreneurial organization, a government agency, etc. Students will consider the necessary business skills required of social entrepreneurs and others working to make systemic, sustainable change in communities around the world.
Prerequisite(s):SISE 2010.Prerequisite(s):SISE 2010.SISE 2021Design Thinking for Social Impact(3)This course offers a practical, experience-based introduction to design thinking tools and methods for community-led change and social impact. Through discussion, workshops, and active field work, students will be introduced to the processes, practices, and mindsets that are associated with human-centered design. We use a rights-based approach to our experiments in design thinking, grounding our discussions in the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Students will work in close collaboration with Tulane peers and members of the greater New Orleans community to design new products, services, or experiences in response to community needs.SISE 2890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99SISE 2891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99SISE 2930Special Topics(0-6)Special TopicsCourse Limit:99SISE 2940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 2000 level. Departmental approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99SISE 3010Dsgn Thinking Collective Impac(4)This course offers a practical, experience-based introduction to design-thinking (DT) tools and techniques with a focus on social innovation for collective impact. We use a rights-based approach to our experiments in design thinking, grounding our activities and discussions in the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Through a series of projects, you will learn to find a need by looking for gaps highlighted by the SDGs and the Declaration of Human Rights, and you will respond to this need in individual and group activities. Throughout the semester, you will be introduced to the principles and mindsets that are associated with design thinking through discussion, studio and field work, and close collaboration with colleagues and members of the New Orleans community.
Prerequisite(s):SISE 2010.Prerequisite(s):SISE 2010.SISE 3011Social Change Across Sectors(3)Students in this class will learn about social change strategies that transform systems while completing their Tier-1 or Tier-2 service-learning requirement. We take a historical and contextual perspective of the field to assess changemaking strategies in service of more just and equitable societies. We will explore different change strategies that changemakers can use to tackle wicked problems in society, such as social innovation and social entrepreneurship, social advocacy and activism, and social service provision. Students will have the opportunity to explore social impact organizations in the private, public, and citizen sectors. We will also discuss various facets of environmental, financial, and social sustainability.Prerequisite(s):SISE 2011*.*May be taken concurrently.Corequisite(s):SISE 3890.SISE 3041Leading Change(5)For real change to happen, there needs to be effective leadership. This course dives into unpacking and formulating what it takes for effective leadership to ensure positive social and environmental change. Students in this course will study the theory and practice of leadership, why leadership is vital to changemaking, and learn from respected leaders and relevant case studies rooted in social change. Students will also assess their personal leadership strengths and weaknesses, practice the art of leading, and create a vision and design for their own leadership as change makers.SISE 3042Social Entrepreneurship(3)Grounded on theories and practice of social entrepreneurship, or the process of developing new and innovative opportunities that directly address social and environmental issues, this course highlights the importance of understanding business planning and economic concepts for organizations. The course will assess different business models for social impact organizations and how these organizations integrate their social mission with their business strategies. Students will consider the necessary business skills required of social entrepreneurs and others working to make positive, systemic, sustainable change in communities around the world.SISE 3210The Arts and Social Impact(3)Pablo Picasso once said, “Every child is an artist. The problem is how to remain an artist once we grow up.” The purpose of this course is to examine the value of the arts in society, and more specifically the linkages between the arts, creative problem solving, and social impact. The capacity for artistic expression is one of the defining characteristics of being human. Yet, the arts are systematically devalued in public schools. And the myth of the “struggling artist” perpetuates the idea of the artist as an outcast. Drawing from multiple perspectives, we will explore the unique ways the arts contribute to social impact. We will discuss theories, read scholarly articles, examine case studies, and hear from guest speakers in the local arts community. We will specifically investigate the relationship between art and social impact in terms of (a) arts education, (b) social movements, and (c) economic and community development. Attention will be given to the ways artistic expression intersects with structures of class, gender, race, and geography.SISE 3310Facilitating Social Justice(3)This practicum is a requirement for ongoing participation in the Community Engagement Advocates program and requires applied work in facilitating
social justice dialogues. The student facilitators in this class will participate in weekly experiential sessions: to observe, practice, learn and prepare for their work as peer-to-peer facilitators and student leaders working for collective impact; to strengthen their own understanding of social justice, identity development and multicultural education in the context of community engagement and service learning; to further develop their community and co-facilitation relationships and experience; and to continue their own personal growth and development in the areas of facilitation and social justice.SISE 3315Facilitating Social Justice II(3)This is the second course of two courses offered on a Social Justice Track for the Community Engagement Advocates Program. This course will be focused on understanding oppression at various levels in our society and facilitating around the topics with to disrupt systems that marginalized people in our society.
This practicum is a requirement for ongoing participation in the Community Engagement Advocates program and requires applied work in facilitating social justice dialogues. The student facilitators in this class will participate in weekly experiential sessions: to observe, practice, learn and prepare for their work as peer-to-peer facilitators and student leaders working for collective impact; to strengthen their own understanding of social justice, identity development and multicultural education in the context of community engagement and service learning; to further develop their community and co-facilitation relationships and experience; and to continue their own personal growth and development in the areas of facilitation and social justice.Prerequisite(s):SISE 3310.SISE 3320Facilitating Comm Engagement(3)This practicum is a requirement for ongoing participation in the Community Engagement Advocates program and requires applied work in facilitating
social justice dialogues. The student facilitators in this class will participate in weekly experiential sessions: to observe, practice, learn and prepare for their work as peer-to-peer facilitators and student leaders working for collective impact; to strengthen their own understanding of social justice, identity
development and multicultural education in the context of community engagement and service learning; to further develop their community and co-facilitation relationships and experience; and to continue their own personal growth and development in the areas of facilitation and social justice.SISE 3325Facilitating Comm Engagement II(3)This is the second course of two courses offered on a Community Engagement Track for the Community Engagement Advocates Program. This practicum is a requirement for ongoing participation in the Community Engagement Advocates program and requires applied work in facilitating social justice dialogues. The student facilitators in this class will participate in weekly experiential sessions: to observe, practice, learn and prepare for their work as peer-to-peer facilitators and student leaders working for collective impact; to strengthen their own understanding of social justice, identity development and multicultural education in the context of community engagement and service learning; to further develop their community and co-facilitation relationships and experience; and to continue their own personal growth and development in the areas of facilitation and social justice.Prerequisite(s):SISE 3320.SISE 3500Speculative Fiction and Lessons for Social Change(3)What do imaginary worlds have to teach us about the future we want? From fantasy and horror to science fiction, Afrofuturism, cultural commentary, alternative histories and dystopian scenarios, the genre(s) of speculative fiction depict worlds that don’t exist – yet! Through intergalactic encounters, time travel, magic, advanced technologies and more, speculative fiction offers powerful critiques of our current social and environmental systems as well as alternative visions of many possible, and more inclusive worlds. These alternatives allow us to explore and critically analyze what more just, sustainable, liberating, and equitable realities might look like, and how we might imagine them into being through processes of social innovation. This class will engage with literary, musical, and cinematic works of speculative fiction with a focus on works by artists of color, who are using speculation to challenge the status quo and combat marginalization—such as those by N.K. Jemisin, Janelle Monae, Jordan Peele, Nia DaCosta, Juel Taylor, Octavia Butler, Ursula K. Le Guin, Ted Chiang, and more, to understand the lessons they offer us for social change. Students will also produce their own original world-building works through short stories, reflections, poems, drawings and/or prototypes. Through this project they will have an opportunity to offer perspectives race and/or ethnicity as social constructs in the United States.SISE 3890Service Learning(0-1)The service-learning class is taken in conjunction withSISE 3210. An exemplar community partner will provide a real-time case study of the class concepts, helping students to understand how to apply changemaking approaches to address complex social problems. We will use the tenets of critical service-learning including a social change orientation, redistribution of power, and authentic relationships to maximize the impact of the experience for students and partners.Corequisite(s):SISE 3210.SISE 3940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 3000 level. Departmental approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99SISE 4020Ldrship for Collective Impact(3)The purpose of this course is to develop the next generation of leaders for our country and the world. The study of leadership begins with a conceptual understanding of the genealogies and evolution of leadership theory. It follows with students gaining practical knowledge about change management and different leadership styles and characteristics through case studies and personal interactions with proven leaders. The course also creates an opportunity for students to assess and demonstrate their leadership capabilities and to develop a personal leadership plan for the future.
Prerequisite(s):SISE 2010,2020and3010.Prerequisite(s):SISE 2010,2020and3010.SISE 4050Senior Seminar(1)The senior seminar provides a forum for seniors in the social innovation and social entrepreneurship minor (SISE) to synthesize their undergraduate work in this area of study. Students will critically reflect on and consolidate their knowledge and understanding of the SISE field. Through critical discussion around specific themes relevant to SISE, seminar participants will forge a deeper understanding of SISE as an approach to addressing social problems, its potential, and the nature of its critiques. A primary goal of the SISE minor is to help students embody the design thinking skills of empathy, listening, and humility and collaboration, with a focus on social impact (rather than profit or self-promotion). To that end, the class sessions offer a forum for engaging in meaningful reflection on major topics and themes studied throughout the semester and the opportunity to relate that to student’s individual experiences. The class will also help students cement their network of current and future thought partners, including peers, classmates, instructors, and guest lecturers. Students will reflect on long-term goals as active citizens and changemakers and explore next steps beyond graduation
Prerequisite(s):SISE 2010,2020,3010and4020.Prerequisite(s):SISE 2010,2020,3010and4020.SISE 4560SISE Internship(3)SISE Internship open to especially qualified upper level students with approval of instructor, 3 credit hours. Students must contact the SISE Director to enroll.Maximum Hours:99SISE 4570SISE CPS Internship(3)CPS Internship Coordinators place students in the appropriate seminar depending on their department for credit and their internship. Internship Seminars are based on discussion sessions, professional development workshops, guest speakers from local organizations, and student presentations.Maximum Hours:99SISE 4890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99SISE 4910Independent Study(1-3)Independent Study Open to especially qualified upper level students with approval of instructor, 1-3 credit hours.SISE 4930Special Topics(0-6)Special TopicsCourse Limit:99SISE 4940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 4000 level. Departmental approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99SISE 4950Special Topics(1-3)Special Topics in Social Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship. These are newly developed courses or courses taught by visiting faculty. Title and content may vary by semester. See the Schedule of Classes for specific offerings. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99SISE 4951Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Social Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship. These are newly developed courses or courses taught by visiting faculty. Title and content may vary by semester. See the Schedule of Classes for specific offerings. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99SISE 4952Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Social Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship. These are newly developed courses or courses taught by visiting faculty. Title and content may vary by semester. See the Schedule of Classes for specific offerings. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99SISE 4953Special Topics(1-3)Special Topics in Social Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship. These are newly developed courses or courses taught by visiting faculty. Title and content may vary by semester. See the Schedule of Classes for specific offerings. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99SISE 5380Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Courses may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99SISE 5390Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Courses may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99SISE 6010Social Innovation Theories & Practice(3)Addressing eco-social crises such as climate change, racial injustice and wealth inequality requires collective efforts and creative solutions from all sectors of society. This course provides students with a deeper understanding of social innovation as a dynamic process of transforming dominant, harmful institutions and pursuing planetary wellbeing. By taking a constructionist and glocal lens, this class examines different schools of thought on what constitutes “social good” and how to achieve it, highlighting related actors and factors driving current movements of social innovation. Throughout the course, we draw on cases of enterprises, organizations, movements, policies, programs and more – in domains as diverse as ethical fashion, youth development, ecological conservation and food justice – to highlight key lessons and approaches in understanding and innovating around wicked problems. Through critical reading, creative and reflexive assignments and interactive classroom activities, students explore pathways to changing systems and reimagine their own roles within collaborative innovation ecosystems. A final project invites students to design their unique change making toolkit that they can use to tackle issues about which they are passionate.SISE 6930Special Topics(0-6)Special TopicsCourse Limit:99SISE 6950Special Topics(1-3)Special Topics in Social Innovation and Social Enterprenuership. These are newly developed courses or courses taught by visiting faculty. Title and content may vary by semester. See the Schedule of Classes for specific offerings. Course may be
repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99SISE 7010Design Thinking for Social Impact(3)This course offers a practical, experience-based introduction to design thinking tools and methods for community-led change and social impact. Through discussion, workshops, and active field work, students will be introduced to the processes, practices, and mindsets that are associated with human-centered design. We use a rights-based approach to our experiments in design thinking, grounding our discussions in the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Students will work in close collaboration with Tulane peers and members of the greater New Orleans community to design new products, services, or experiences in response to community needs.