Admiralty, LMA Overview Requirements Tulane Law School is known internationally for its admiralty and maritime law program. The city of New Orleans, located near the mouth of the Mississippi River and the Gulf of Mexico, is a significant maritime center, and the lower Mississippi River is one of the largest ports in the world. New Orleans itself has the second largest admiralty bar in the United States. As a result of the natural focus on maritime issues in New Orleans, Tulane Law School has become an important center for the study of admiralty and maritime law. To qualify for the degree of LLM in Admiralty, the student must complete at least 13 of the 24 hours required for the degree in admiralty courses. A list of admiralty courses from the current and past two academic years may be found here . Additional admiralty courses, including mini courses, are offered each year by visiting professors from throughout the world. Students may enroll in this program on a full-time basis, completing it over one year. Attorneys practicing full-time in the New Orleans area may enroll on a part-time basis, completing the program over four consecutive semesters. Candidates for the LLM in Admiralty must fulfill the General Degree Requirements and must also complete at least 13 of the 24 credits required for the degree in admiralty courses. Typically, the following admiralty courses are offered: Admiralty I Admiralty II Carriage of Goods by Sea Charter Parties Collision Law & Limitation of Liability Law of the Sea Marine Insurance I Marine Insurance II Personal Injury & Death Marine Pollution Regulation of Shipping & Commerce Admiralty Seminar Tugs & Towage Vessel Documentation & Finance Additional admiralty courses, including month-long mini courses, are offered each year by visiting professors from throughout the world. In recent years, these courses have included Comparative Carriage of Goods, International Jurisdiction in Maritime Cases, Maritime Liens, Law of the Sea, and International Conventions.

Candidates for the LLM in Admiralty must fulfill the General Degree Requirements and must also complete at least 13 of the 24 credits required for the degree in admiralty courses. Typically, the following admiralty courses are offered: Admiralty I Admiralty II Carriage of Goods by Sea Charter Parties Collision Law & Limitation of Liability Law of the Sea Marine Insurance I Marine Insurance II Personal Injury & Death Marine Pollution Regulation of Shipping & Commerce Admiralty Seminar Tugs & Towage Vessel Documentation & Finance Additional admiralty courses, including month-long mini courses, are offered each year by visiting professors from throughout the world. In recent years, these courses have included Comparative Carriage of Goods, International Jurisdiction in Maritime Cases, Maritime Liens, Law of the Sea, and International Conventions.