Anatomic Pathology, MS Overview Requirements Pathologists' Assistant Program The Pathologists’ Assistant Program at Tulane University School of Medicine is a two-year, full-time professional allied health program that currently accepts 10 students per year.  Upon successful completion of the required curriculum, students will graduate with a Master of Science degree in Anatomic Pathology.  The issuing of the Master of Science degree in Anatomic Pathology from Tulane University School of Medicine is not contingent upon students passing any type of external certification or licensure examination, including but not limited to the American Society for Clinical Pathology Board of Certification Examination for Pathologists’ Assistants. The curriculum includes a required component and an optional component.  The required curriculum provides the education essential for students to become practicing Pathologists’ Assistants upon graduation.  The optional component of the curriculum allows students to pursue personal interests that align with individual career goals. The Pathologists’ Assistant Scope of Practice is vast and will likely continue to expand with the ever-evolving healthcare system.  To ensure that students are prepared to adapt to this environment, students may choose to gain additional knowledge or skills that align with individual career goals.  While the optional component of the curriculum is available to students, no student is required to enroll in any electives. The required curriculum includes 83 credit hours over the course of two years, which includes both didactic and clinical components.  The first year of the program consists of didactic courses in basic sciences and surgical pathology, with surgical pathology and autopsy pathology rotations during the summer.  The second year of the program consists entirely of clinical rotations. Year 1: Spring Semester (January – May) Gross Anatomy (4 credits) Human Histology (4 credits) Embryology (4 credits) Physiology (3 credits) Surgical Pathology Techniques (4 credits) Summer (May – August) Autopsy Pathology (3 credits) Autopsy Pathology Practicum (1 credit) Advanced Surgical Pathology Techniques I (4 credits) Advanced Surgical Pathology Techniques I Lab (2 credits) Surgical Pathology Practicum (1 credit) Mechanisms of Disease I – General Pathology (5 credits) Fall (August – December) Mechanisms of Disease II – Systemic Pathology (5 credits) Advanced Surgical Pathology Techniques II (4 credits) Advanced Surgical Pathology Techniques II Lab (2 credits) Pathologists’ Assistant Seminar (1 credit) Year 2: Clinical rotations at various sites including surgical pathology, autopsy pathology, forensic pathology, clinical pathology, hematopathology, cytopathology, pediatric pathology, and digital pathology.  Students have the option to participate in cancer research, and an optional teaching practicum. The required curriculum is comprised of the above courses. Students have the option to take additional lecture-based or research-based electives, independent studies, and a teaching practicum.

The required curriculum includes 83 credit hours over the course of two years, which includes both didactic and clinical components.  The first year of the program consists of didactic courses in basic sciences and surgical pathology, with surgical pathology and autopsy pathology rotations during the summer.  The second year of the program consists entirely of clinical rotations. Year 1: Spring Semester (January – May) Gross Anatomy (4 credits) Human Histology (4 credits) Embryology (4 credits) Physiology (3 credits) Surgical Pathology Techniques (4 credits) Summer (May – August) Autopsy Pathology (3 credits) Autopsy Pathology Practicum (1 credit) Advanced Surgical Pathology Techniques I (4 credits) Advanced Surgical Pathology Techniques I Lab (2 credits) Surgical Pathology Practicum (1 credit) Mechanisms of Disease I – General Pathology (5 credits) Fall (August – December) Mechanisms of Disease II – Systemic Pathology (5 credits) Advanced Surgical Pathology Techniques II (4 credits) Advanced Surgical Pathology Techniques II Lab (2 credits) Pathologists’ Assistant Seminar (1 credit) Year 2: Clinical rotations at various sites including surgical pathology, autopsy pathology, forensic pathology, clinical pathology, hematopathology, cytopathology, pediatric pathology, and digital pathology.  Students have the option to participate in cancer research, and an optional teaching practicum. The required curriculum is comprised of the above courses. Students have the option to take additional lecture-based or research-based electives, independent studies, and a teaching practicum.