Business Administration, Executive MBA Overview Requirements The Tulane Executive MBA (EMBA) is an accelerated alternate-weekend MBA program designed for experienced professionals to earn an MBA in 17 months.  The 48-credit-hour, lockstep curriculum offers the advanced business knowledge and management skills managers need to rise to higher challenges, improve career opportunities and drive corporate growth. All students earn a concentration in global strategy, and students may earn a second concentration in finance or management by choosing electives in those areas. Curriculum Pre-Program In the months immediately before the EMBA curriculum begins, prep courses in accounting and quantitative skills help to align student skills with the requirements of the early courses in the curriculum. The subsequent orientation and team building sessions will familiarize new students with policies and procedures, and introduce faculty, classmates, and study teams. Intensive Weeks The EMBA program begins in January with a week-long session, Intensive Week I. Students complete two courses, including exams, in this eight-day intensive. Here students are reintroduced to academic life and begin to practice time management, balancing work, home, and school responsibilities. A multicultural intensive week is held on the New Orleans campus in January of the second year. During this Intensive Week II, students form new global study teams, collaborating and sharing a classroom with their EMBA counterparts from partner universities in Asia, Europe and Latin America. Alternate Weekends After Intensive Week I, classes transition to an alternate weekend structure, where students attend classes on Fridays and Saturdays on alternate weekends. Each set of two courses, a module, is typically completed in seven weeks. Electives In the second half of the curriculum, elective courses are introduced. Students can earn finance or management concentrations by selecting the elective course tracks in those areas. International Seminar The international business seminar abroad brings a global depth to the program, giving students firsthand knowledge of global business and management practices and focusing on the strategic and operational issues of doing business abroad. Today's markets and their economic interdependence demand that managers understand global strategic imperatives. This essential management knowledge makes the international business experience a critical and required component of the EMBA curriculum. During the international seminar, students: Explore the economic, technological, and political environments that influence global business initiatives and discover global business opportunities specific to the host country. Develop a keen understanding of global business challenges and management strategies for meeting those challenges. Gain firsthand knowledge of global business culture and practice through face-to-face interaction with international business leaders. Learn the specific challenges these companies face and the strategies employed to meet these challenges. Work directly with local organizations to solve real business problems. For the seminar, we handle all academic and logistical planning, including airfare, ground transportation, logistics, accommodations, group meals and company visits. These seminar costs are included in the total program cost. The seminar destination is usually determined eight to twelve months in advance. In past years, seminars have been held in Beijing, Cape Town and Paris, each presenting students a distinct and culturally unique business environment. Course List Course ID Title Credits REQUIRED COURSES EMBA 6160 Managing People Internationally 2 2-3 EMBA 6180 Accounting for Managers 2 EMBA 6220 Decision Models 2 EMBA 6230 Marketing Management 2 EMBA 6280 Business Analytics 2 EMBA 6240 Operations Management 2 EMBA 6260 Financial Management I 2-3 EMBA 6270 Financial Management II 2-3 EMBA 6310 Strategy Formulation 2-2.5 EMBA 6460 Legal Environ/Business 2 EMBA 7090 Managing The Global Entr 3 2-4 EMBA 7120 Managerial Perspective 1 1-2 EMBA 7160 Economics for Managers 1 2 EMBA 7320 Negotiations 2-3 EMBA 7390 Financial Statemt Analys 2 EMBA 7430 Global Strategy 2-3 EMBA 7450 Managemnt Communications 2-3 EMBA 7460 Entrepreneurship Mgmt. 2 EMBA 7520 Leadership and Ethics 2 ELECTIVES Finance EMBA 7510 Portfolio Theory EMBA 7610 Options EMBA 7620 Corp Risk Management EMBA 7370 Cases In Finance Management EMBA 7590 Corporate Strategy EMBA 7410 Change Management EMBA 7550 Performance Management EMBA 7660 Managing Innovation 1 Intensive Week I course. 2 International Intensive Week course. 3 International seminar course.

Curriculum Pre-Program In the months immediately before the EMBA curriculum begins, prep courses in accounting and quantitative skills help to align student skills with the requirements of the early courses in the curriculum. The subsequent orientation and team building sessions will familiarize new students with policies and procedures, and introduce faculty, classmates, and study teams. Intensive Weeks The EMBA program begins in January with a week-long session, Intensive Week I. Students complete two courses, including exams, in this eight-day intensive. Here students are reintroduced to academic life and begin to practice time management, balancing work, home, and school responsibilities. A multicultural intensive week is held on the New Orleans campus in January of the second year. During this Intensive Week II, students form new global study teams, collaborating and sharing a classroom with their EMBA counterparts from partner universities in Asia, Europe and Latin America. Alternate Weekends After Intensive Week I, classes transition to an alternate weekend structure, where students attend classes on Fridays and Saturdays on alternate weekends. Each set of two courses, a module, is typically completed in seven weeks. Electives In the second half of the curriculum, elective courses are introduced. Students can earn finance or management concentrations by selecting the elective course tracks in those areas. International Seminar The international business seminar abroad brings a global depth to the program, giving students firsthand knowledge of global business and management practices and focusing on the strategic and operational issues of doing business abroad. Today's markets and their economic interdependence demand that managers understand global strategic imperatives. This essential management knowledge makes the international business experience a critical and required component of the EMBA curriculum. During the international seminar, students: Explore the economic, technological, and political environments that influence global business initiatives and discover global business opportunities specific to the host country. Develop a keen understanding of global business challenges and management strategies for meeting those challenges. Gain firsthand knowledge of global business culture and practice through face-to-face interaction with international business leaders. Learn the specific challenges these companies face and the strategies employed to meet these challenges. Work directly with local organizations to solve real business problems. For the seminar, we handle all academic and logistical planning, including airfare, ground transportation, logistics, accommodations, group meals and company visits. These seminar costs are included in the total program cost. The seminar destination is usually determined eight to twelve months in advance. In past years, seminars have been held in Beijing, Cape Town and Paris, each presenting students a distinct and culturally unique business environment. Course List Course ID Title Credits REQUIRED COURSES EMBA 6160 Managing People Internationally 2 2-3 EMBA 6180 Accounting for Managers 2 EMBA 6220 Decision Models 2 EMBA 6230 Marketing Management 2 EMBA 6280 Business Analytics 2 EMBA 6240 Operations Management 2 EMBA 6260 Financial Management I 2-3 EMBA 6270 Financial Management II 2-3 EMBA 6310 Strategy Formulation 2-2.5 EMBA 6460 Legal Environ/Business 2 EMBA 7090 Managing The Global Entr 3 2-4 EMBA 7120 Managerial Perspective 1 1-2 EMBA 7160 Economics for Managers 1 2 EMBA 7320 Negotiations 2-3 EMBA 7390 Financial Statemt Analys 2 EMBA 7430 Global Strategy 2-3 EMBA 7450 Managemnt Communications 2-3 EMBA 7460 Entrepreneurship Mgmt. 2 EMBA 7520 Leadership and Ethics 2 ELECTIVES Finance EMBA 7510 Portfolio Theory EMBA 7610 Options EMBA 7620 Corp Risk Management EMBA 7370 Cases In Finance Management EMBA 7590 Corporate Strategy EMBA 7410 Change Management EMBA 7550 Performance Management EMBA 7660 Managing Innovation 1 Intensive Week I course. 2 International Intensive Week course. 3 International seminar course.