Civil Law Certificate Overview Requirements Professor Ronald J. Scalise, Jr., Director Tulane has taught both common and civil law courses for more than 160 years and takes pride in fostering exceptional civil law scholarship both in Louisiana and across the globe. For students who plan to practice internationally or in civil law jurisdictions, Tulane offers an assortment of civil and comparative law courses unavailable at most law schools. Students must complete and pass a total of 18 credit hours. Of these, at least 15 credit hours must be taken from among the courses designated in the registration materials as “Basic Courses,” with at least one course drawn from each of the three groups. The 3 additional credit hours may be taken from either the Basic Courses or the courses designated “Enrichment Courses.” Basic Courses Students must select one course from each group, and may take any additional basic courses to make up the total of 15 credit hours: Group I: Fundamental Principles, Obligations and Special Contracts Obligations I Obligations II Commercial Law: Civil Law Security Rights Civil Law Torts Group II: Persons and Family Property Family Law: Civil and Common Community Property Successions, Donations and Trusts Group III: Property and Procedure Civil Law Property I Civil Law Property II Louisiana Civil Procedure Enrichment Courses Students may take their final three credit hours from the basic courses or the following enrichment courses: Civil Law Seminar Civil Law Persons Mixed Jurisdictions Seminar Comparative Law: European Legal Systems Comparative Private Law Real Estate Transactions & Finance: Common & Civil Law Roman Law Directed Research in Civil Law Clinical experience with civil law content, upon approval by the certificate Director. Visitor, summer school abroad and mini-courses identified as appropriate by the Civil Law Faculty.

Basic Courses Students must select one course from each group, and may take any additional basic courses to make up the total of 15 credit hours: Group I: Fundamental Principles, Obligations and Special Contracts Obligations I Obligations II Commercial Law: Civil Law Security Rights Civil Law Torts Group II: Persons and Family Property Family Law: Civil and Common Community Property Successions, Donations and Trusts Group III: Property and Procedure Civil Law Property I Civil Law Property II Louisiana Civil Procedure Enrichment Courses Students may take their final three credit hours from the basic courses or the following enrichment courses: Civil Law Seminar Civil Law Persons Mixed Jurisdictions Seminar Comparative Law: European Legal Systems Comparative Private Law Real Estate Transactions & Finance: Common & Civil Law Roman Law Directed Research in Civil Law Clinical experience with civil law content, upon approval by the certificate Director. Visitor, summer school abroad and mini-courses identified as appropriate by the Civil Law Faculty.