Classical Studies Major, BA Overview Requirements The study of the cultures of ancient Greece and Rome is inherently valuable, and it also offers an opportunity for critical reflection on our own society and its values. The field of classical studies combines history, literature, archaeology, art history, law, and linguistics, and so is fundamentally interdisciplinary in character. The study of Greece and Rome thus provides students with an historical perspective on and better understanding of the institutions, values, and intellectual traditions of the world in which we live. Our students gain an understanding not only of various aspects of the ancient world but also of the methodologies of classical studies can work separately and together to widen and deepen our comprehension of human cultures in all periods. Through the major program in Classical Studies, we aim to educate students in the cultures of the ancient Mediterranean world through the study of Greek and Roman texts in translation and ancient material culture. In addition, since we emphasize research and writing in all of our classes, we seek to foster our students’ intellectual curiosity and to develop their skills in analysis and communication. For more information about the Department of Classical Studies please visit our website. Classical Studies (CLAS) Majors need 30* credits in CLAS, GREK, and/or LATN courses * 27 credits, if the student has multiple majors. Students may take courses entirely in translation, i.e., all CLAS courses, or they can pursue a mix of courses in one or both ancient languages (GREK and/or LATN) and in translation. Because there are no required courses that majors must complete, students can build a major around their interests, concentrating on literary studies, history, or archaeology, for example. At least 9 credits must be earned from courses at the 4000 level. Language Requirement: Greek or Latin courses [ GREK 1010 Elementary Greek (4 c.h.) , GREK 1020 Intermediate Greek (4 c.h.) , GREK 2030 Attic Prose (4 c.h.) , LATN 1010 Elementary Latin (4 c.h.) , LATN 1020 Intermediate Latin (4 c.h.) , LATN 2030 Intro to Latin Literature (4 c.h.) ] may be used to satisfy the Newcomb-Tulane College foreign language requirement. However, any courses used to satisfy the language requirement cannot also be counted toward the major or minor.

Classical Studies (CLAS) Majors need 30* credits in CLAS, GREK, and/or LATN courses * 27 credits, if the student has multiple majors. Students may take courses entirely in translation, i.e., all CLAS courses, or they can pursue a mix of courses in one or both ancient languages (GREK and/or LATN) and in translation. Because there are no required courses that majors must complete, students can build a major around their interests, concentrating on literary studies, history, or archaeology, for example. At least 9 credits must be earned from courses at the 4000 level. Language Requirement: Greek or Latin courses [ GREK 1010 Elementary Greek (4 c.h.) , GREK 1020 Intermediate Greek (4 c.h.) , GREK 2030 Attic Prose (4 c.h.) , LATN 1010 Elementary Latin (4 c.h.) , LATN 1020 Intermediate Latin (4 c.h.) , LATN 2030 Intro to Latin Literature (4 c.h.) ] may be used to satisfy the Newcomb-Tulane College foreign language requirement. However, any courses used to satisfy the language requirement cannot also be counted toward the major or minor.