Classical Studies Minor Overview Requirements The study of the cultures of ancient Greece and Rome is inherently valuable, and it also offers an opportunity for critical reflection on our own society and its values. The field of classical studies combines history, literature, archaeology, art history, law, and linguistics, and so is fundamentally interdisciplinary in character. The study of Greece and Rome thus provides students with an historical perspective on and better understanding of the institutions, values, and intellectual traditions of the world in which we live. Our students gain an understanding not only of various aspects of the ancient world but also of the methodologies of classical studies can work separately and together to widen and deepen our comprehension of human cultures in all periods. Through the minor program in Classical Studies, we aim, first, to introduce students to the ancient history and culture of the Mediterranean world through the study of ancient texts in translation and ancient material culture, and, second, to foster our students’ desire and ability to analyze critically the evidence on which our knowledge of the ancient Mediterranean is based. For more information about the Department of Classical Studies please visit our website. Classical Studies (CLAS) Minors need 15 credits in CLAS, GREK, and/or LATN courses. at least 9 credits must be at or above the 3000 level at least 3 credits of those must be at the 4000 level Language Requirement: Greek or Latin courses may be used to satisfy the Newcomb-Tulane College foreign language requirement. However, any courses used to satisfy the language requirement cannot also be counted toward the major or minor.

Classical Studies (CLAS) Minors need 15 credits in CLAS, GREK, and/or LATN courses. at least 9 credits must be at or above the 3000 level at least 3 credits of those must be at the 4000 level Language Requirement: Greek or Latin courses may be used to satisfy the Newcomb-Tulane College foreign language requirement. However, any courses used to satisfy the language requirement cannot also be counted toward the major or minor.