Dietetic Internship Overview Requirements The Tulane Dietetic Internship Program is a graduate-level supervised practice program for students who would like to become Registered Dietitians. It is a full-time non-degree program with a community emphasis. The dietetic internship at Tulane University School of Public Health is currently granted accreditation by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, 120 South Riverside Drive, Suite 2190, Chicago, IL 60606. 800/877-1600, ext 5400. The mission of the Tulane Dietetic Internship is to prepare entry-level Registered Dietitians for leadership in community health practices through education, research and practice directed at health promotion and disease prevention among individuals and their communities. The Dietetic Internship program will give the students the opportunity to apply clinically the nutrition and food management knowledge that they have learned in their Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD). The purpose of the Tulane Dietetic Internship is to provide a comprehensive and intensive supervised practice experience, with the opportunities to acquire the competencies necessary to function as an entry-level practitioner and to make the student registration eligible (to be qualified to register for the Registered Dietitian [RD] Exam). The Tulane Dietetic Internship lasts 10 months and provides practical training and field experience in various community, clinical, and food service and management settings in the greater New Orleans area. The program accepts 20 interns per year. The internship begins in the Fall semester and is completed in June. Interns must successfully complete all rotations and exams to receive a verification statement and be eligible to take the CDR Registration Examination in Dietetics. Interns must follow the policies/procedures required by the rotation facilities. Interns must remove facial jewelry and tattoos must be covered with clothing while at internship rotation sites. For more information, contact the Tulane Dietetic Internship Director Marsha Piacun at di@tulane.edu .

The Tulane Dietetic Internship lasts 10 months and provides practical training and field experience in various community, clinical, and food service and management settings in the greater New Orleans area. The program accepts 20 interns per year. The internship begins in the Fall semester and is completed in June. Interns must successfully complete all rotations and exams to receive a verification statement and be eligible to take the CDR Registration Examination in Dietetics. Interns must follow the policies/procedures required by the rotation facilities. Interns must remove facial jewelry and tattoos must be covered with clothing while at internship rotation sites. For more information, contact the Tulane Dietetic Internship Director Marsha Piacun at di@tulane.edu .