Digital Media & Marketing Communications, Certificate Overview Requirements The mission of the Media + Design program is to provide students with the research and problem-solving skills necessary to create strategic, innovative, cultural and socially significant communication solutions. Students will understand how communication can create change through design, advertising, public relations and digital media marketing. Upon graduation, students of SoPA’s Media + Design program will be prepared to enter a highly competitive workforce in the industries of graphic design, interactive design, public relations, digital media marketing and advertising. The Professional Certificate in Digital Media and Marketing Communications enables students to advance their skill set and understanding of digital media strategies, tactics, and best practices used in the digital marketing and communications industries. This 18 credit-hour undergraduate certificate focuses on the strategies used in digital marketing campaigns including digital content such as infographics, e-books, and blogs; and, SEO & SEM tactics to improve an organizations effectiveness in communicating to their audience on digital, social media, and mobile platforms. Blocks Each Digital Design track consists of "blocks" showing the required order of all coursework. All courses within each block must be completed before you may move on to the next block. For example, all courses in Block 1 must be completed before any courses may be taken in Block 2, and so on. Courses within a block may be take at the same time. Reviews Due to the highly demanding nature of this program, students are assessed for knowledge and preparedness for further courses after both Block 2 and Block 4. The reviews include a portfolio review and a questionnaire, both of them evaluated and scored by faculty. A score of 80 or higher constitutes passing the review, which means that the student is ready to proceed in the program. Students who do not pass may resubmit their portfolios the following semester; a letter will be provided to each student with specific recommendations for how to improve their work. Students who fail the review twice may be asked to take a semester of leave to work on a portfolio, or to change majors. Course List Course ID Title Credits Block 1 6 MDES 2300 Digital Media Principles & Strategy MDES 3300 Creating Digital Content Block 2 6 MDES 3310 Digital Media Analytics & Reporting MDES 3320 CRM and Digital Media Block 3 6 MDES 3330 SEO & SEM Strategies Choose 1 of the following: MDES 2110 Media Ethics & Equity MDES 2120 Media Law MDES 2210 Media Research MDES 4300 DMMC Studio DDSN 3600 Social Media Studio Total Credit Hours 18

Blocks Each Digital Design track consists of "blocks" showing the required order of all coursework. All courses within each block must be completed before you may move on to the next block. For example, all courses in Block 1 must be completed before any courses may be taken in Block 2, and so on. Courses within a block may be take at the same time. Reviews Due to the highly demanding nature of this program, students are assessed for knowledge and preparedness for further courses after both Block 2 and Block 4. The reviews include a portfolio review and a questionnaire, both of them evaluated and scored by faculty. A score of 80 or higher constitutes passing the review, which means that the student is ready to proceed in the program. Students who do not pass may resubmit their portfolios the following semester; a letter will be provided to each student with specific recommendations for how to improve their work. Students who fail the review twice may be asked to take a semester of leave to work on a portfolio, or to change majors. Course List Course ID Title Credits Block 1 6 MDES 2300 Digital Media Principles & Strategy MDES 3300 Creating Digital Content Block 2 6 MDES 3310 Digital Media Analytics & Reporting MDES 3320 CRM and Digital Media Block 3 6 MDES 3330 SEO & SEM Strategies Choose 1 of the following: MDES 2110 Media Ethics & Equity MDES 2120 Media Law MDES 2210 Media Research MDES 4300 DMMC Studio DDSN 3600 Social Media Studio Total Credit Hours 18