Digital Media & Marketing Communications, B.A. Overview Requirements The mission of the Media + Design program is to provide students with the research and problem-solving skills necessary to create strategic, innovative, cultural and socially significant communication solutions. Students will understand how communication can create change through design, advertising, public relations and digital media marketing. Upon graduation, students of SoPA’s Media + Design program will be prepared to enter a highly competitive workforce in the industries of graphic design, interactive design, public relations, digital media marketing and advertising. The Media + Design Program’s Digital Media Marketing and Communications major will equip students with content-rich and highly competitive skills that are necessary in the digital marketing and communication industries. In the program, students will demonstrate  mastery in the following: fundamentals of digital marketing that will address common marketing challenges including research, planning, implementation and evaluation; articulating the value that digital marketing campaigns across SEO, paid search, social media, mobile, email and display marketing; conducting audience research to recognize key performance indicators and comprehend marketing analytics which will ultimately shape campaign success; understanding the legal, ethical and cross-cultural implications that digital marketing campaigns are grounded in; and, measuring and analyzing the impact of digital marketing campaigns through the use of various platforms and tools. Tulane’s School of Professional Advancement awards the Bachelor of Arts in Digital Media Marketing and Communications following the successful completion of 120 credits, including 36 credits in the major. Successful completion of an upper level review is required to advance in the program and is typically done prior to advancing to 3000 and 4000 level courses. Successful completion of an upper level review is required to advance in the program and is typically done prior to advancing to 3000 and 4000 level courses. Blocks Each Digital Design track consists of "blocks" showing the required order of all coursework. All courses within each block must be completed before you may move on to the next block. For example, all courses in Block 1 must be completed before any courses may be taken in Block 2, and so on. Courses within a block may be take at the same time. Reviews Due to the highly demanding nature of this program, students are assessed for knowledge and preparedness for further courses after both Block 2 and Block 4. The reviews include a portfolio review and a questionnaire, both of them evaluated and scored by faculty. A score of 80 or higher constitutes passing the review, which means that the student is ready to proceed in the program. Students who do not pass may resubmit their portfolios the following semester; a letter will be provided to each student with specific recommendations for how to improve their work. Students who fail the review twice may be asked to take a semester of leave to work on a portfolio, or to change majors. Course List Course ID Title Credits Block 1 9 DDSN 1100 Digital Design Foundations DDSN 2103 Intro to Copywriting DDSN or MDES Elective Block 2 9 MDES 2300 Digital Media Principles & Strategy MDES 2110 Media Ethics & Equity DDSN or MDES Elective Block 3 6 MDES 2210 Media Research DDSN or MDES Elective Advancement Review Block 4 9 MDES 3300 Creating Digital Content MDES 3450 Brand & Campaign Strategy DDSN or MDES Elective Block 5 9 MDES 3310 Digital Media Analytics & Reporting MDES 3320 CRM and Digital Media DDSN or MDES Elective Block 6 6 MDES 3330 SEO & SEM Strategies MDES 4300 DMMC Studio Block 7 6 MDES 4210 Portfolio: Media & Design DDSN or MDES Elective Total Credit Hours 54

Blocks Each Digital Design track consists of "blocks" showing the required order of all coursework. All courses within each block must be completed before you may move on to the next block. For example, all courses in Block 1 must be completed before any courses may be taken in Block 2, and so on. Courses within a block may be take at the same time. Reviews Due to the highly demanding nature of this program, students are assessed for knowledge and preparedness for further courses after both Block 2 and Block 4. The reviews include a portfolio review and a questionnaire, both of them evaluated and scored by faculty. A score of 80 or higher constitutes passing the review, which means that the student is ready to proceed in the program. Students who do not pass may resubmit their portfolios the following semester; a letter will be provided to each student with specific recommendations for how to improve their work. Students who fail the review twice may be asked to take a semester of leave to work on a portfolio, or to change majors. Course List Course ID Title Credits Block 1 9 DDSN 1100 Digital Design Foundations DDSN 2103 Intro to Copywriting DDSN or MDES Elective Block 2 9 MDES 2300 Digital Media Principles & Strategy MDES 2110 Media Ethics & Equity DDSN or MDES Elective Block 3 6 MDES 2210 Media Research DDSN or MDES Elective Advancement Review Block 4 9 MDES 3300 Creating Digital Content MDES 3450 Brand & Campaign Strategy DDSN or MDES Elective Block 5 9 MDES 3310 Digital Media Analytics & Reporting MDES 3320 CRM and Digital Media DDSN or MDES Elective Block 6 6 MDES 3330 SEO & SEM Strategies MDES 4300 DMMC Studio Block 7 6 MDES 4210 Portfolio: Media & Design DDSN or MDES Elective Total Credit Hours 54