Early Childhood Education Coordinate Major Overview Requirements The Elementary Education Coordinate Major may only be completed, at this time, concurrent with undergraduate degrees within the Tulane School of Professional Advancement. Students must meet the requirements for the primary major while completing the required Elementary Education requirements.  Students work with an advisor in the department of their primary major and an advisor in the PreK-12 Education program to ensure all requirements in both programs are met.  Students receive a B.A., B.S., or B.F.A. degree and must complete the core requirements of their respective Colleges. The elementary education coordinate major may only be completed, at this time, by Tulane SoPA undergraduates. Please see the Psychology Department’s catalog page for major requirements. Students who complete all requirements below earn a coordinate major in Elementary Education (grades 1-5) and, for those who participate in the clinical residency, become eligible to apply for the Elementary Education (grades 1-5) teaching license in Louisiana. Course List Course ID Title Credits EDLA 2000 Education In A Diverse Society 3 EDUC 3410 The Craft of Teaching 3 EDUC 3422 Foundations of Elementary Literacy 3 PSYC 3210 Child Psychology 3 EDUC 3803 Elementary Education Reading Methods 3 EDUC 3805 Elementary Reading Instruction for All Learners 3 EDUC 4310 Teaching Social Studies in the Elementary Education 3 EDUC 4320 Teaching Science in the Elementary Classroom 3 EDUC 4330 Teaching Math in Elementary Classrooms 3 AND EDUC 53__* (Residency I (Student/Practitioner)) 3 EDUC 53__* (Residency II (Student/Practitioner)) 3 OR EDUC 5271 Applied Research Project I (Applied Research Capstone I) 3 EDUC 5281 Applied Research Project II (Applied Research Capstone II) 3 Total Credit Hours 39 * Students choose the certification pathway by taking 6 credits of Residency. Those not seeking certification take 6 credits of Applied Research Capstone. Additional Requirements for Certification Students in the Elementary Education coordinate major must maintain a 3.0 GPA in education courses, as well as maintain a 2.75 GPA overall. To enroll in and progress through the Residency program for certification, students must: Successfully complete and meet program requirements and competencies Successfully pass the Gateway to Residency Complete the Praxis II (Content Area) prior to residency Complete the Praxis II (Principles of Learning and Teaching_ prior to or during residency Successfully pass the Gateway to Teaching

The elementary education coordinate major may only be completed, at this time, by Tulane SoPA undergraduates. Please see the Psychology Department’s catalog page for major requirements. Students who complete all requirements below earn a coordinate major in Elementary Education (grades 1-5) and, for those who participate in the clinical residency, become eligible to apply for the Elementary Education (grades 1-5) teaching license in Louisiana. Course List Course ID Title Credits EDLA 2000 Education In A Diverse Society 3 EDUC 3410 The Craft of Teaching 3 EDUC 3422 Foundations of Elementary Literacy 3 PSYC 3210 Child Psychology 3 EDUC 3803 Elementary Education Reading Methods 3 EDUC 3805 Elementary Reading Instruction for All Learners 3 EDUC 4310 Teaching Social Studies in the Elementary Education 3 EDUC 4320 Teaching Science in the Elementary Classroom 3 EDUC 4330 Teaching Math in Elementary Classrooms 3 AND EDUC 53__* (Residency I (Student/Practitioner)) 3 EDUC 53__* (Residency II (Student/Practitioner)) 3 OR EDUC 5271 Applied Research Project I (Applied Research Capstone I) 3 EDUC 5281 Applied Research Project II (Applied Research Capstone II) 3 Total Credit Hours 39 * Students choose the certification pathway by taking 6 credits of Residency. Those not seeking certification take 6 credits of Applied Research Capstone. Additional Requirements for Certification Students in the Elementary Education coordinate major must maintain a 3.0 GPA in education courses, as well as maintain a 2.75 GPA overall. To enroll in and progress through the Residency program for certification, students must: Successfully complete and meet program requirements and competencies Successfully pass the Gateway to Residency Complete the Praxis II (Content Area) prior to residency Complete the Praxis II (Principles of Learning and Teaching_ prior to or during residency Successfully pass the Gateway to Teaching