Earth and Environmental Sciences, PhD Overview Requirements The geosciences aim to increase our understanding of the composition and evolution of the Earth, including its fundamental role in creating the natural environment that humans inhabit. As such, this broad field addresses problems that will likely constitute some of the premier challenges for humankind in the 21st century, given the need to feed a rapidly growing world population, the continuously increasing per capita demand for natural resources, and the associated impacts such as climate change and the vast spectrum of more regional environmental impacts. All students working for the Ph.D. degree must satisfy the general requirements as listed below. The master's degree is not a requirement for the Ph.D. in Earth and Environmental Sciences. Candidates must demonstrate a high degree of creative or research ability and fulfill the following requirements: Pass a qualifying examination before their fifth semester Complete at least 48 semester hours of course work at the 6000-9000 level with approval by the graduate advisor Form a dissertation committee and present a dissertation prospectus that will serve as a guideline for dissertation Present an original contribution in the form of a written dissertation suitable for multiple publications in peer-reviewed journals and successfully defend their dissertation it in a public oral defense of the work

All students working for the Ph.D. degree must satisfy the general requirements as listed below. The master's degree is not a requirement for the Ph.D. in Earth and Environmental Sciences. Candidates must demonstrate a high degree of creative or research ability and fulfill the following requirements: Pass a qualifying examination before their fifth semester Complete at least 48 semester hours of course work at the 6000-9000 level with approval by the graduate advisor Form a dissertation committee and present a dissertation prospectus that will serve as a guideline for dissertation Present an original contribution in the form of a written dissertation suitable for multiple publications in peer-reviewed journals and successfully defend their dissertation it in a public oral defense of the work