Energy Certificate Overview Requirements The certificate is designed to leverage explicit knowledge gained from the core BSM curriculum, integrating courses in several business disciplines, including, finance, analytics, economics, risk management, strategy, and operations. With a strong emphasis on skill development, experiential learning, and industry exposure, students will graduate with both a solid foundation in the fundamental principles in Energy as well as a path towards a future career in the industry. The Certificate in Energy prepares undergraduate students for entry-level positions and careers in the energy industry or with companies or firms that serve the industry, including related banking/financial organizations, trading organizations, consulting firms, utilities, technology, and government agencies. The Certificate in Energy requires four courses and 12 credit hours and is available to BSM students in the A.B. Freeman School of Business. The certificate must be earned concurrently with the BSM degree. No more than one course of the Certificate in Energy may count toward a student's BSM degree and major. Course List Course ID Title Credits First Semester ENRG 4100 Energy Markets, Economics, and Policy 3 Second Semester, one or more of below ENRG 4110 Energy Financial Modeling 3 ENRG 4200 Energy Fundamentals and Trading 3 Third and Fourth Semester, one or more of below ENRG 4410 Special Topics (industry projects) 1-3 ENRG 4610 Energy Trends: Electric Power Markets (trading) 3 ENRG 4730 Energy Investment Banking 3 FINE 4160 Equity Analysis/Burkenroad Reports (energy company coverage) 3 FINE 4610 Darwin Fenner Student Managed Fund Honors Seminar (energy sector focused) 3

The Certificate in Energy requires four courses and 12 credit hours and is available to BSM students in the A.B. Freeman School of Business. The certificate must be earned concurrently with the BSM degree. No more than one course of the Certificate in Energy may count toward a student's BSM degree and major. Course List Course ID Title Credits First Semester ENRG 4100 Energy Markets, Economics, and Policy 3 Second Semester, one or more of below ENRG 4110 Energy Financial Modeling 3 ENRG 4200 Energy Fundamentals and Trading 3 Third and Fourth Semester, one or more of below ENRG 4410 Special Topics (industry projects) 1-3 ENRG 4610 Energy Trends: Electric Power Markets (trading) 3 ENRG 4730 Energy Investment Banking 3 FINE 4160 Equity Analysis/Burkenroad Reports (energy company coverage) 3 FINE 4610 Darwin Fenner Student Managed Fund Honors Seminar (energy sector focused) 3