Epidemiology, PhD Overview Requirements The PhD degree program prepares students for careers in epidemiologic research and teaching, usually in an academic setting. The PhD graduate is expected to have knowledge across a wide range of epidemiologic theory and methods as well as sustained experience in the conduct of research in one or more content areas. The PhD program has a strong theoretical base and is focused on research.  The PhD is the terminal degree in Epidemiology. Program Competencies Critique the scientific literature to assess the current state of knowledge and identify research questions for future investigation. Construct an epidemiologic study to advance the field of epidemiology and public health. Formulate an epidemiologic analysis plan using advanced methods to answer research questions. Design teaching and learning experiences grounded in pedagogical best practices in a chosen area of expertise. Develop a grant proposal for a public health research study with a compelling scientific narrative, description of investigator capacity, timeline, and budget. Prerequisite Coursework (from prior master's degree) . Course List Course ID Title Credits PhD Foundational Courses SPHL 6020 Foundations in Public Health (or equivalent) 3 BIOS 6040 Intermediate Biostatistics (or equivalent) 3 EPID 7120 Epidemiologic Methods II (or equivalent) 3 EPID 7130 Observational Epidemiology 3 EPID 7160 Survey Methodology 3 PhD Core Courses BIOS 7060 Regression Analysis 3 EPID 8300 Advanced Epid Methods 3 SPHL 8080 Public Health Pedagogy 3 SPHL 7500 Public Health Grant Writing 3 EPID 7000 Departmental Seminar 0 EPID 8000 Doctoral Journal Club 0 EPID 7170 Clinical Trials: Dsgn, Cndct 3 EPID 7220 Analytic Epidemiology 3 BIOS 7150 Categorical Data Analysi 3 BIOS 7300 Survival Data Analysis 3 BIOS 8350 Clustered and Longitudinal Data Analysis 3 Electives 6 Total Credit Hours 48 Elective Courses Selected from courses offered within the department, school, or university in consultation with a faculty advisor. Research Ethics Students are required to take online research ethics training via CITI or another equivalent training program in research ethics. This certification must remain current throughout the program duration. Teaching Assistantship Requirement All PhD students at SPHTM are required to serve as a teaching assistant (TA) for two SPHTM courses while enrolled in the PhD program. Students should register for Teaching Assistantship Educational Experience (0 credits) during the terms they complete each TA requirement. Comprehensive Exam Students are required to pass a written comprehensive examination demonstrating general knowledge of epidemiologic and biostatistical methods and knowledge of the epidemiology in at least one content area. The exam will include sections on higher level epidemiologic methods, a content area and study design. Prospectus Students must prepare and defend a prospectus of proposed research. Dissertation Students must conduct original research and defend a dissertation based on that research.

Prerequisite Coursework (from prior master's degree) . Course List Course ID Title Credits PhD Foundational Courses SPHL 6020 Foundations in Public Health (or equivalent) 3 BIOS 6040 Intermediate Biostatistics (or equivalent) 3 EPID 7120 Epidemiologic Methods II (or equivalent) 3 EPID 7130 Observational Epidemiology 3 EPID 7160 Survey Methodology 3 PhD Core Courses BIOS 7060 Regression Analysis 3 EPID 8300 Advanced Epid Methods 3 SPHL 8080 Public Health Pedagogy 3 SPHL 7500 Public Health Grant Writing 3 EPID 7000 Departmental Seminar 0 EPID 8000 Doctoral Journal Club 0 EPID 7170 Clinical Trials: Dsgn, Cndct 3 EPID 7220 Analytic Epidemiology 3 BIOS 7150 Categorical Data Analysi 3 BIOS 7300 Survival Data Analysis 3 BIOS 8350 Clustered and Longitudinal Data Analysis 3 Electives 6 Total Credit Hours 48 Elective Courses Selected from courses offered within the department, school, or university in consultation with a faculty advisor. Research Ethics Students are required to take online research ethics training via CITI or another equivalent training program in research ethics. This certification must remain current throughout the program duration. Teaching Assistantship Requirement All PhD students at SPHTM are required to serve as a teaching assistant (TA) for two SPHTM courses while enrolled in the PhD program. Students should register for Teaching Assistantship Educational Experience (0 credits) during the terms they complete each TA requirement. Comprehensive Exam Students are required to pass a written comprehensive examination demonstrating general knowledge of epidemiologic and biostatistical methods and knowledge of the epidemiology in at least one content area. The exam will include sections on higher level epidemiologic methods, a content area and study design. Prospectus Students must prepare and defend a prospectus of proposed research. Dissertation Students must conduct original research and defend a dissertation based on that research.