Health Care Leadership & Innovation Certificate (Graduate) Overview Requirements The Graduate Certificate in Health Care Leadership and Innovation prepares physicians, clinicians, and health care administrators to lead complex, integrated health care delivery systems.  The certificate equips student with quantitative and evidence-based management and leadership skills.  Courses carry graduate degree credit that may be applied toward a master’s degree in the area. Participants’ experiences include monthly on-site sessions with intervening distance and worksite experiential activities, supplemented with visiting scholar and leader’s conferences.  Sessions are facilitated by recognized experts with demonstrated teaching skills, knowledge and “real world” experience. Competencies Apply the guiding principles of positive human-centered leadership. Identify innovative human-centered leadership and operational design practices. List key components of relational high-performing teams and positive organizational learning cultures. Explain human-centered organizational transformation and deployment of design strategies. Interpret current business models, and contemporary financial and economic trends in the health care ecosystem. Practice personal mastery skills and relational capacities for effective communication, shared decision-making, and organizational development . The Graduate Certificate in Health Care Leadership and Innovation requires 15 credits Course List Course ID Title Credits HPAM 6930 Leadership and Innovation 3 HPAM 6940 Business Trends, Models & Payment Systems 3 HPAM 6950 Relational Communication and Professionalism 3 HPAM 6960 Accounting and Financial Management 3 HPAM 6970 Leading and Designing Innovative Learning Organizations 3

The Graduate Certificate in Health Care Leadership and Innovation requires 15 credits Course List Course ID Title Credits HPAM 6930 Leadership and Innovation 3 HPAM 6940 Business Trends, Models & Payment Systems 3 HPAM 6950 Relational Communication and Professionalism 3 HPAM 6960 Accounting and Financial Management 3 HPAM 6970 Leading and Designing Innovative Learning Organizations 3