Labor and Employment, MJ Overview Requirements The Master of Jurisprudence (M.J.) is a post-baccalaureate degree that allows non-legal professionals to enhance career related skills through the study of the laws, governmental policy, and the legal system. This degree is designed to infuse career based knowledge with legal education. MJ-LEL students are chosen from among this nation’s incumbent and aspiring human resource professionals, as well as those in management and leadership roles who have personnel responsibilities. The Labor and Employment Law MJ program from Tulane is delivered in a hybrid format through which students complete most of their coursework online and only come to campus once for a multi-day Education Immersion Weekend. The program is ideally suited for accomplished, busy working professionals from companies across the nation. Human resource professionals ― whether they carry formal HR titles or are business managers with personnel responsibilities ― serve as the crucial link between an organization’s management and its employees. A formal, academic credential in Labor and Employment Law offers the knowledge needed to comply with the myriad regulations established by state and federal law and and teaches the skills required to successfully navigate everything from creating personnel manuals, to engaging in collective bargaining, to administering benefits, to handling sensitive employee relations issues. The program requires the completion of 30 credit hours, and typically takes two years to complete. This online, non-residential program was designed for human resource professionals and those seeking to transition into HR. Students will obtain additional expertise and familiarity with the extensive and complex body of federal and state regulations that govern most aspects of recruitment, hiring and retention of employees. The MJ-LEL program includes a one-time on-campus Education Immersion Weekend, in addition to its online course curriculum. Curriculum Semester 1 Students must take both of these required courses: Legal Analysis I (2 credits) Introduction to Employment Discrimination Law Principles and Strategies (3 credits) Semester 2 Students must take both of these required courses: Legal Analysis II (2 credits) Introduction to Labor Law Principles and Strategies (3 credits) Semester 3 Students must take both of these required courses: Employment Law (2 credits) IP Issues in the Employment Context (3 credits) Semester 4 Students must take this required course, plus one 2-credit elective: Sex and Gender Issues in the Workplace (3 credits) Semester 5 Students must take this required course, plus one 2-credit elective: Social Media Issues in the Workplace (3 credits) Semester 6 Students must take this required course, plus one 2-credit elective: Capstone (3 credits) Elective Courses Negotiating Skills (2 credits) Employee Medical Leaves of Absence (2 credits) Developing and Managing the Workforce: Recruitment, Retention, Termination, Retirement and Turnover (2 credits) Privacy in the Workplace (2 credits) Investigating, Mediating and Arbitrating Employee Complaints (2 credits) On-Site Education Immersion Weekend (EIW) All students enrolled in the online MJ program must attend one EIW to be eligible to receive the Masters degree. Students are welcome to attend more than the one EIW session. Each session is composed of two days of academic and other programming at the Law School during the summer. The EIW is designed to (a) supplement the online curriculum by involving students and faculty in discussion of new developments and unique other issues not addressed in the online curriculum; (2) provide students with networking opportunities by meeting their peers; (3) provide students and faculty opportunities to meet face-to-face; and (4) provide a tangible link between the students and the law school to promote their continued relationship to the school. The course is not offered for credit but attendance is required for program completion.

Curriculum Semester 1 Students must take both of these required courses: Legal Analysis I (2 credits) Introduction to Employment Discrimination Law Principles and Strategies (3 credits) Semester 2 Students must take both of these required courses: Legal Analysis II (2 credits) Introduction to Labor Law Principles and Strategies (3 credits) Semester 3 Students must take both of these required courses: Employment Law (2 credits) IP Issues in the Employment Context (3 credits) Semester 4 Students must take this required course, plus one 2-credit elective: Sex and Gender Issues in the Workplace (3 credits) Semester 5 Students must take this required course, plus one 2-credit elective: Social Media Issues in the Workplace (3 credits) Semester 6 Students must take this required course, plus one 2-credit elective: Capstone (3 credits) Elective Courses Negotiating Skills (2 credits) Employee Medical Leaves of Absence (2 credits) Developing and Managing the Workforce: Recruitment, Retention, Termination, Retirement and Turnover (2 credits) Privacy in the Workplace (2 credits) Investigating, Mediating and Arbitrating Employee Complaints (2 credits) On-Site Education Immersion Weekend (EIW) All students enrolled in the online MJ program must attend one EIW to be eligible to receive the Masters degree. Students are welcome to attend more than the one EIW session. Each session is composed of two days of academic and other programming at the Law School during the summer. The EIW is designed to (a) supplement the online curriculum by involving students and faculty in discussion of new developments and unique other issues not addressed in the online curriculum; (2) provide students with networking opportunities by meeting their peers; (3) provide students and faculty opportunities to meet face-to-face; and (4) provide a tangible link between the students and the law school to promote their continued relationship to the school. The course is not offered for credit but attendance is required for program completion.