Liberal Arts, Master of Liberal Arts Overview Requirements The Master of Liberal Arts (MLA) program at The School of Professional Advancement promotes the development of skills in critical thinking, reading, writing, and oral communication.  The MLA degree is awarded following the successful completion of ten graduate-level liberal arts courses. These must include at least two courses designated MLAR and the MLA Capstone course. The MLA Capstone allows students to critically and systematically integrate the knowledge gained in the program. Students may complete the Capstone Project or the Capstone Portfolio. Students work with the MLA Program Director to determine the best option for their learning goals. Both feature a seminar that serves as the 10th course in the MLA program. Students wishing to complete a master’s thesis are exempt from the Capstone requirement. MLA students may be eligible to enroll in other graduate-level liberal arts courses at Tulane, though tuition for graduate-level courses taken at Tulane schools outside of the School of Professional Advancement may be billed at a higher rate. Students are required to complete ten courses.  These must include at least two courses designated MLAR, while students may be eligible to enroll in other graduate-level liberal arts courses at Tulane. As their tenth course, students will enroll in a Capstone seminar to complete either a Capstone Project or a Capstone Portfolio. MLA students who wish to write a thesis in lieu of the tenth course may petition the Director to do so. Students may not apply more than two independent study courses toward graduation requirements for the MLA. Students must also submit an application for degree, available from the School of Professional Advancement Dean's office, at the beginning of the semester in which the student plans to complete all required coursework.

Students are required to complete ten courses.  These must include at least two courses designated MLAR, while students may be eligible to enroll in other graduate-level liberal arts courses at Tulane. As their tenth course, students will enroll in a Capstone seminar to complete either a Capstone Project or a Capstone Portfolio. MLA students who wish to write a thesis in lieu of the tenth course may petition the Director to do so. Students may not apply more than two independent study courses toward graduation requirements for the MLA. Students must also submit an application for degree, available from the School of Professional Advancement Dean's office, at the beginning of the semester in which the student plans to complete all required coursework.