Molecular Medicine, MS Overview Requirements The MS Programs in Pathology at Tulane University are designed for students with a baccalaureate degree in science who are seeking advanced training in the health sciences, typically in preparation for pursuit of a professional degree (e.g. Medical, Dental, Physician Assistant, Pharmacy, Veterinary Medicine, Ph.D.) or for preparation to work in academia or biotechnology. Undergraduate courses in biology and chemistry are prerequisites.  This program is also useful to individuals in academia that wish to understand recent advances in biomedical science. Foreign students with a medical degree that wish to develop research skills are also encouraged to apply to this program. We offer two different programs of study for the MS degree, a one year program in Molecular Medicine and a two year program in Molecular and Cellular Pathobiology. . The objective of the graduate program is to provide students with opportunities to study the cellular and molecular mechanisms of human diseases through didactic teaching and research training. Both Master of Science (MS) programs are designed not only to enhance the academic credentials for individuals wishing to pursue a career in a health-related science, but also to ease the transition to medical/graduate school. The Molecular Medicine Program is a full-time two semester post-baccalaureate program leading to a Master of Science degree. This program is designed to provide a solid foundation in human diseases and their molecular pathways for students considering applying to medical, dental, and other health-related professional schools. All courses in this program are taught by full-time faculty in the Tulane School of Medicine.  The degree requirements of this program include 30 credit hours of coursework with a cumulative GPA ≥ 3.0.  Although no thesis is required, students will prepare written assignments and oral presentations as part of the required course work. Recipients of the MS in Molecular Medicine will demonstrate advanced knowledge in the molecular and cellular basis of disease and a basic understanding of biomedical research. Plan of Study Grid Year 1 Fall Credit Hours Mechanisms of Disease I 5 Advanced Cell Biology 3 Molecular  Medicine 4 Advances in Pathology Research 1 Electives 2 Credit Hours 15 Spring Mechanisms of Disease II 5 Molecular & Cellular Pathobiology 4 Advances in Pathology Research 1 Electives 5 Credit Hours 15 Total Credit Hours 30

Plan of Study Grid Year 1 Fall Credit Hours Mechanisms of Disease I 5 Advanced Cell Biology 3 Molecular  Medicine 4 Advances in Pathology Research 1 Electives 2 Credit Hours 15 Spring Mechanisms of Disease II 5 Molecular & Cellular Pathobiology 4 Advances in Pathology Research 1 Electives 5 Credit Hours 15 Total Credit Hours 30