Philosophy, MA Overview Requirements Tulane offers a terminal MA degree in Philosophy. The program is intended for students who are eager to continue their study of philosophy, but do not feel ready to enter a PhD program. The MA program can help students develop a deeper and more comprehensive understanding of both contemporary issues in philosophy as well as the history of philosophy, and to prepare to seek admission into a competitive PhD program. It is also useful for students who have a strong interest in philosophy, but are unsure about whether they would like to commit to pursuing a PhD. The philosophy department at Tulane offers a wide variety of courses, and is especially attractive for students wishing to pursue research in ethics, political philosophy, the history of philosophy, and philosophy of mind. For information about our faculty members, please see our faculty page . An undergraduate major in philosophy is desirable for graduate study in philosophy, but it is not essential. However, students admitted with insufficient background in ethics or logic or the history of philosophy may be required to take courses in these areas without graduate credit. Transfer course credit for previous graduate work in philosophy is possible. The terminal MA program is independent of the PhD program at Tulane. Subsequent admission to the PhD program at Tulane requires application through the normal channels. The program is intended to be completed within two years. For information about the terminal MA program at Tulane, please contact the Director of Graduate Studies, Kevin Morris . The 4+1 Masters Degree Program The Department also offers a program of study that allows Tulane undergraduates who graduate with a major in philosophy to receive an MA in Philosophy after one additional year. The program is intended primarily for students who are eager to continue their study of philosophy, yet either do not feel ready to apply for admission into a PhD program, or have no interest in doing so. The 4+1 program MA program helps students develop a deeper and more comprehensive understanding of both contemporary issues in philosophy as well as the history of philosophy, and to prepare to seek admission into a competitive PhD program. It is also useful for students who have a strong interest in philosophy, but are unsure about whether they would like to commit to pursuing a PhD.  The philosophy department at Tulane offers a wide.  A variety of courses, and is especially attractive for students wishing to pursue research in ethics, political philosophy, the history of philosophy, and philosophy of mind. For information about our faculty members, please see our faculty page.  The 4 + 1 MA program is independent of the PhD program. Subsequent admission to the PhD program requires application through the normal channels. The terminal MA Degree may be earned in one of two ways. 30 Credit hours total which includes satisfactory completion of 24 hours of coursework (8 courses) and submission and defense of a thesis (6 credits). This route is not intended for candidates for the PhD. Satisfactory completion of 30 hours of coursework (10 courses) and passing one qualifying paper. The 4+1 M.A. degree will be awarded to students who obtain either of the following: Passing grades in 30 credit hours of graduate level courses (i.e., 6000-level and 7000-level).     Passing grades in 24 credit hours of graduate level courses and a Master's thesis (6 credits).  The first option will be encouraged in most cases.  In order to satisfy either of these options, it will be necessary to carry over a number of courses from the undergraduate degree.  The requirements for the Philosophy Major in the B.A. degree include two courses at the 6000-level. ONE AND ONLY ONE of those courses can count toward the 4+1 M.A. requirements. However, any additional 6000-level or 7000-level courses that have been taken for the undergraduate degree may be transferred (UP TO A MAXIMUM OF 12 CREDIT HOURS). Further details and information about the application process may be obtained from the Director of Graduate Studies, Kevin Morris .

The terminal MA Degree may be earned in one of two ways. 30 Credit hours total which includes satisfactory completion of 24 hours of coursework (8 courses) and submission and defense of a thesis (6 credits). This route is not intended for candidates for the PhD. Satisfactory completion of 30 hours of coursework (10 courses) and passing one qualifying paper. The 4+1 M.A. degree will be awarded to students who obtain either of the following: Passing grades in 30 credit hours of graduate level courses (i.e., 6000-level and 7000-level).     Passing grades in 24 credit hours of graduate level courses and a Master's thesis (6 credits).  The first option will be encouraged in most cases.  In order to satisfy either of these options, it will be necessary to carry over a number of courses from the undergraduate degree.  The requirements for the Philosophy Major in the B.A. degree include two courses at the 6000-level. ONE AND ONLY ONE of those courses can count toward the 4+1 M.A. requirements. However, any additional 6000-level or 7000-level courses that have been taken for the undergraduate degree may be transferred (UP TO A MAXIMUM OF 12 CREDIT HOURS). Further details and information about the application process may be obtained from the Director of Graduate Studies, Kevin Morris .