Policy Economics, MA Overview Requirements The Master of Arts in Policy Economics at Tulane University integrates economic analysis and quantitative methods in a program of study designed for practitioners. Successful students will be prepared to enter the job market with a set of analytical skills designed for economic policy analysis. Whereas a Ph.D. in economics is a research degree, the M.A. in Policy Economics provides a curriculum of applied analysis and quantitative techniques better suited for the practitioner of economics. This program provides students with a deep and broad exposure to the analytical methods of modern economics that can be applied to policy settings, without requiring the advanced mathematics training that is only essential to academic researchers. The program builds on the strengths of the bachelor's degrees in Economics at Tulane by increasing the required number of economics courses and expanding their rigor and depth. In courses offered jointly with the undergraduates, M.A. students are held to higher academic standards and are generally assigned supplementary research work. Successful students can expect to complete at least seven applied projects in the course of earning the M.A. degree. Masters Program Sample Course Schedule Internal Applicants (4 + 1) Internal applicants (4 + 1) must must satisfy all remaining bachelor's degree requirements in their senior year in the undergraduate program. In satisfying these requirements, they may take at most 4 6000-level courses in economics (12 credit hours) that will also count towards the degree of M.A. in Policy Economics. The remaining 24 credit hours must be taken after graduation from their undergraduate program. Plan of Study Grid Year 1 Credit Hours ECON 6230 Econometrics 3 Select three Masters Electives 1 9 Credit Hours 12 Year 2 Select eight Masters Electives 2 24 Credit Hours 24 Total Credit Hours 36 1 Masters Electives are 6000-level economics courses. 2 With the approval of the Director of Graduate Studies, courses in other departments may also serve as Masters Electives. External Applicants M.A. students not in the B.A./M.A. or B.S./M.A. track can complete the program in either 3 or 4 semesters. In the first year they should enroll in ECON 6230 Econometrics (3 c.h.) . In addition, they will take 11 Masters Electives during their course of study.

Masters Program Sample Course Schedule Internal Applicants (4 + 1) Internal applicants (4 + 1) must must satisfy all remaining bachelor's degree requirements in their senior year in the undergraduate program. In satisfying these requirements, they may take at most 4 6000-level courses in economics (12 credit hours) that will also count towards the degree of M.A. in Policy Economics. The remaining 24 credit hours must be taken after graduation from their undergraduate program. Plan of Study Grid Year 1 Credit Hours ECON 6230 Econometrics 3 Select three Masters Electives 1 9 Credit Hours 12 Year 2 Select eight Masters Electives 2 24 Credit Hours 24 Total Credit Hours 36 1 Masters Electives are 6000-level economics courses. 2 With the approval of the Director of Graduate Studies, courses in other departments may also serve as Masters Electives. External Applicants M.A. students not in the B.A./M.A. or B.S./M.A. track can complete the program in either 3 or 4 semesters. In the first year they should enroll in ECON 6230 Econometrics (3 c.h.) . In addition, they will take 11 Masters Electives during their course of study.