Political Science/ International Development Minor Overview Requirements PSDV is the most inter-disciplinary Political Science track. It focuses on the analysis of unequal political, social, and economic development around the world and what might be done to improve the livelihoods of people in the Global South as well as underprivileged communities in the United States. This track offers students an education firmly rooted in a social science framework that allows them to explore multiple meanings of international development. Coursework within the department introduces students to the history, theories, and methods of the field, allows them to deepen their knowledge of at least one world area (Latin America, Africa, Middle East, or Asia), and offers in-depth study of policy areas including poverty, migration, human rights, transitional justice, gender, foreign aid, food and agriculture, health, and environmental sustainability. A minor in political science with a concentration in international development (PSDV) consists of six courses, including PSDV 2400 Intro to Internatl Development (3 c.h.) and either ECON 1020 Intro to Macroeconomics (3 c.h.) OR POLI 3450 Global War on Terrorism (3 c.h.) , and four electives. Course List Course ID Title Credits PSDV 2400 Intro to Internatl Development 3 ECON 1020 Intro to Macroeconomics 3 or POLI 3540 Internationl Political Economy Select four electives * 12 Total Credit Hours 18 * Rules for electives: All of the electives must be 3000 - level or above A t least one must be PSDV At least one must be from another field of Political Science (POLA, PSIR, POLC, POLT) At least one must be from outside the department (contact department for approved list of electives)

A minor in political science with a concentration in international development (PSDV) consists of six courses, including PSDV 2400 Intro to Internatl Development (3 c.h.) and either ECON 1020 Intro to Macroeconomics (3 c.h.) OR POLI 3450 Global War on Terrorism (3 c.h.) , and four electives. Course List Course ID Title Credits PSDV 2400 Intro to Internatl Development 3 ECON 1020 Intro to Macroeconomics 3 or POLI 3540 Internationl Political Economy Select four electives * 12 Total Credit Hours 18 * Rules for electives: All of the electives must be 3000 - level or above A t least one must be PSDV At least one must be from another field of Political Science (POLA, PSIR, POLC, POLT) At least one must be from outside the department (contact department for approved list of electives)