Political Science Major Overview Requirements Students majoring in political science are challenged to think creatively and analytically about historically and currently relevant topics. Through participation in lectures, seminars, internships, and independent studies, our students develop critical reasoning, communication, data analysis, and reflectional skills. Many graduates go on to obtain advanced degrees in law, business, public policy, political science, and public administration. Others apply their degree to relevant career employment, pursuing work in political campaigns, lobbies, non-profit foundations, think tanks, corporations, public relations firms, news organizations, government, and international organizations. TO DECLARE A POLS, PSIR OR PSDV MAJOR and for information about undergraduate advising in Political Science, please go to: https://liberalarts.tulane.edu/departments/political-science/undergraduate-advising Please note, you cannot declare two political science majors. You must choose either POLS, PSIR or PSDV. Course List Course ID Title Credits Required Courses POLS 2010 Scope/Methods Poli Sci 3 Select at least three of the following: 9 POLA 2100 American Government (or a 4 or 5 on the A.P. American Government Exam) POLC 2300 Comparative Politics (or a 4 or 5 on the A.P. Comparative Politics Exam) POLI 2500 International Relations POLT 2700 Pol Thought In The West Statistics or Foreign Language Component Select one of the following: 3 MATH 1110 Probability & Statistics I (or other equivalent course) 1 Select one additional course (3 credits) beyond the SLA foreign-language requirements Electives Select at least six electives in political science 2 18 1 Political Science (POLS) majors who are double majors in Sociology or Psychology may satisfy this requirement through the successful completion of SOCI 3030 Intro To Research Design (3 c.h.) , PSYC 3090 Univariate I & Lab (4 c.h.) . Equivalent courses from other departments or schools may also satisfy this requirement for any student majoring in Political Science, as determined by the Department Chair or Undergraduate Studies Director. 2 No more than four of these courses can be in any single subfield (POLA, POLC, POLI, POLT, or PSDV). Pre-requisites For all major tracks (POLS, POLI, & PSDV),students must have successfully completed POLS 2010 Scope/Methods Poli Sci (3 c.h.) and the correlating  introductory course in order to enroll in any course above the 3000-level.  For example, students must complete POLA 2100 American Government (3 c.h.) in order to enroll in POLA 4000 or 6000-level courses.  Faculty may choose to add other pre-requisites to any course and are encouraged to do so in any case in which they feel that doing so would improve student preparation for and performance in their own courses.  Non-major juniors and seniors may enroll in courses at the 4000-level or above with the consent of the instructor.  The Political Science department enforces all pre-requisites.  Students must have successfully completed a pre-requisite the semester before registering for any class.  The department reserves the right to drop students who are missing the pre-requisite from the course without notice. Level of Coursework Students must successfully complete at least three courses at the 4000 or 6000 level. An Honor's thesis in Political Science will count as one 4000-level elective One Political Science independent study may count as a 4000-level elective but only if it is taken for 3 credits Students may count one Political Science internship course ( POLS 4560 Internship (1,3 c.h.) Internship) toward the major requirements, however it will not count toward the three required 4000- or 6000-level electives.

TO DECLARE A POLS, PSIR OR PSDV MAJOR and for information about undergraduate advising in Political Science, please go to: https://liberalarts.tulane.edu/departments/political-science/undergraduate-advising Please note, you cannot declare two political science majors. You must choose either POLS, PSIR or PSDV. Course List Course ID Title Credits Required Courses POLS 2010 Scope/Methods Poli Sci 3 Select at least three of the following: 9 POLA 2100 American Government (or a 4 or 5 on the A.P. American Government Exam) POLC 2300 Comparative Politics (or a 4 or 5 on the A.P. Comparative Politics Exam) POLI 2500 International Relations POLT 2700 Pol Thought In The West Statistics or Foreign Language Component Select one of the following: 3 MATH 1110 Probability & Statistics I (or other equivalent course) 1 Select one additional course (3 credits) beyond the SLA foreign-language requirements Electives Select at least six electives in political science 2 18 1 Political Science (POLS) majors who are double majors in Sociology or Psychology may satisfy this requirement through the successful completion of SOCI 3030 Intro To Research Design (3 c.h.) , PSYC 3090 Univariate I & Lab (4 c.h.) . Equivalent courses from other departments or schools may also satisfy this requirement for any student majoring in Political Science, as determined by the Department Chair or Undergraduate Studies Director. 2 No more than four of these courses can be in any single subfield (POLA, POLC, POLI, POLT, or PSDV). Pre-requisites For all major tracks (POLS, POLI, & PSDV),students must have successfully completed POLS 2010 Scope/Methods Poli Sci (3 c.h.) and the correlating  introductory course in order to enroll in any course above the 3000-level.  For example, students must complete POLA 2100 American Government (3 c.h.) in order to enroll in POLA 4000 or 6000-level courses.  Faculty may choose to add other pre-requisites to any course and are encouraged to do so in any case in which they feel that doing so would improve student preparation for and performance in their own courses.  Non-major juniors and seniors may enroll in courses at the 4000-level or above with the consent of the instructor.  The Political Science department enforces all pre-requisites.  Students must have successfully completed a pre-requisite the semester before registering for any class.  The department reserves the right to drop students who are missing the pre-requisite from the course without notice. Level of Coursework Students must successfully complete at least three courses at the 4000 or 6000 level. An Honor's thesis in Political Science will count as one 4000-level elective One Political Science independent study may count as a 4000-level elective but only if it is taken for 3 credits Students may count one Political Science internship course ( POLS 4560 Internship (1,3 c.h.) Internship) toward the major requirements, however it will not count toward the three required 4000- or 6000-level electives.