Psychology Minor Overview Requirements A minor in Psychology (PSYC) provides students with exposure to the breadth of the field beyond Introductory Psychology, and includes at least one course in three of the four distribution areas (below) plus one psychology elective. Biological Psychology Developmental Psychology Cultural, Personality, and Social Psychology Clinical Applications and Assessment Students that major in neuroscience complete the psychology minor under PSYN. The PSYN minor requires the completion of PSYC 1000 Introductory Psych (3 c.h.) and four additional elective courses in Psychology which do not overlap with course requirements in Neuroscience and are not cross-listed as PSYC/NSCI. Because of the large number of psychology courses required for the cognitive studies major, the requirements for cognitive studies majors who minor in psychology are different from other psychology minors. A minor in psychology when completed with a major in cognitive studies requires the completion of PSYC 1000. In addition, students must complete four additional 3 or 4 credit elective courses in psychology which are not applied to the cognitive studies major. A minor in psychology requires: No more than 8 credits may be transferred to count towards the Psychology Minor. Students must earn at least a 2.0 minor GPA. At least 12 credits must be taken at or above the 3000 level. Psychology minors are limited to taking a maximum of two courses for credit towards the minor while studying abroad. S/U graded courses do not count towards the minor requirements. Specifics for each "version" of the psychology minor are the following: PSYC: 5 Psychology courses and a minimum of 15 hours. These courses must include PSYC 1000 Introductory Psych (3 c.h.) ,  at least 1 course in three of the four distribution areas (see below), and one elective psychology course. Biological Psychology Developmental Psychology Cultural, Personality, and Social Psychology Clinical Applications and Assessment PSYN: (for students majoring in Neuroscience) 5 courses and a minimum of 15 hours. The PSYN minor requires the completion PSYC 1000 Introductory Psych (3 c.h.) and four additional elective courses in Psychology which do not overlap with course requirements in Neuroscience and are not cross-listed as PSYC/NSCI. Cognitive Studies Majors Seeking a PSYC Minor Cognitive Studies majors who wish to receive a psychology minor must take PSYC 1000 Introductory Psych (3 c.h.) plus four additional courses at or above the 3000 level in psychology that do not overlap with their Cognitive Studies major.

A minor in psychology requires: No more than 8 credits may be transferred to count towards the Psychology Minor. Students must earn at least a 2.0 minor GPA. At least 12 credits must be taken at or above the 3000 level. Psychology minors are limited to taking a maximum of two courses for credit towards the minor while studying abroad. S/U graded courses do not count towards the minor requirements. Specifics for each "version" of the psychology minor are the following: PSYC: 5 Psychology courses and a minimum of 15 hours. These courses must include PSYC 1000 Introductory Psych (3 c.h.) ,  at least 1 course in three of the four distribution areas (see below), and one elective psychology course. Biological Psychology Developmental Psychology Cultural, Personality, and Social Psychology Clinical Applications and Assessment PSYN: (for students majoring in Neuroscience) 5 courses and a minimum of 15 hours. The PSYN minor requires the completion PSYC 1000 Introductory Psych (3 c.h.) and four additional elective courses in Psychology which do not overlap with course requirements in Neuroscience and are not cross-listed as PSYC/NSCI. Cognitive Studies Majors Seeking a PSYC Minor Cognitive Studies majors who wish to receive a psychology minor must take PSYC 1000 Introductory Psych (3 c.h.) plus four additional courses at or above the 3000 level in psychology that do not overlap with their Cognitive Studies major.