Public Interest Design Certificate (Graduate) Overview Requirements The Certificate in Public Interest Design (PID) at the School of Architecture at Tulane University is an 18-credit graduate-level certificate focusing on training and preparing future practitioners of Public Interest Design in the field of architecture, planning, historic preservation, and design. The certificate is designed to advance Public Interest Design, or the practice of design for the benefit of the broader public, especially for those in disadvantaged and historically marginalized communities. The program is envisioned to provide students a framework of theories and hands-on experience on how architecture, design, and the built environment can and should engage with communities towards creating a more just, equitable, inclusive, and sustainable society and world. Students enrolled in the Master of Architecture and Master of Science in Historic Preservation in the School of Architecture can add the Certificate in Public Interest Design in conjunction with their graduate degree program s . The certificate requires the completion of 18 credits composed of three core courses, one design studio, and one elective course. Students intending to take the certificate should submit a declaration form with the Social Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship (SISE) program director. Course List Course ID Title Credits SISE 6010 Social Innovation Theories & Practice 3 SISE 7010 Design Thinking for Social Impact 3 ARCH 6742 Design in Public Interest 3 Graduate Design Studio 1 6 Elective 3 Total Credit Hours 18 1 Selected ARCH (Architecture), PRES (Historic Preservation), or SISE (Social Innovation/Social Entrepreneurship) studio courses may count as Graduate Design Studio. Consult with the SISE program director for approval.

Course List Course ID Title Credits SISE 6010 Social Innovation Theories & Practice 3 SISE 7010 Design Thinking for Social Impact 3 ARCH 6742 Design in Public Interest 3 Graduate Design Studio 1 6 Elective 3 Total Credit Hours 18 1 Selected ARCH (Architecture), PRES (Historic Preservation), or SISE (Social Innovation/Social Entrepreneurship) studio courses may count as Graduate Design Studio. Consult with the SISE program director for approval.