Real Estate Finance and Investment Certificate Overview Requirements This certificate will be available to BSM and ARCH students in the Spring 2024 when the first course of the certificate is expected to be offered. The certificate is designed to leverage explicit knowledge gained from the core BSM curriculum, integrating courses in several business disciplines, including, finance, management science, legal studies, and taxation. With a strong emphasis on skill development, experiential learning, and industry exposure, students will graduate with both a solid foundation in the fundamental principles of real estate finance & investment as well as a path towards a future career in the industry. The Certificate in Real Estate Finance & Investment is applicable to a wide range of future professionals across real estate, banking, finance/investment, and insurance industries. Specifically, the certificate may be of interest to aspiring financial analysts and investment professionals, fund managers, investment portfolio managers, financial advisors, investment bankers, fixed-income security analysts, and financial risk managers. The Certificate in Real Estate Finance & Investment will be awarded to those undergraduate students within the Freeman School of Business as well as those students in the Tulane School of Architecture who successfully complete twelve (12) credit hours in the following four courses: FINE 4010 – Financial Modeling for Real Estate FINE 4210 – Real Estate Private Equity LGST 4150 – Real Estate Finance & Tax Law FINE 4310 – Cases in Real Estate Finance or SRED 4525 Comm RE Analysis with ARGUS (3 c.h.) The certificate must be earned concurrently with the undergraduate degree. No more than one course from the certificate may overlap with a student's B.S.M. degree requirements.

The Certificate in Real Estate Finance & Investment will be awarded to those undergraduate students within the Freeman School of Business as well as those students in the Tulane School of Architecture who successfully complete twelve (12) credit hours in the following four courses: FINE 4010 – Financial Modeling for Real Estate FINE 4210 – Real Estate Private Equity LGST 4150 – Real Estate Finance & Tax Law FINE 4310 – Cases in Real Estate Finance or SRED 4525 Comm RE Analysis with ARGUS (3 c.h.) The certificate must be earned concurrently with the undergraduate degree. No more than one course from the certificate may overlap with a student's B.S.M. degree requirements.