Social Work, DSW Overview Requirements The Tulane University Doctorate in Social Work is ideally suited for social work professionals seeking rigorous training in advanced practice, professional leadership, and applied research. The DSW curriculum consists of six semesters of coursework over two calendar years, followed by a final semester of dedicated and independent study on the Advanced Practice. The DSW@Tulane prepares you to: Apply innovative and critical thinking to pressing social, economic and environmental problems Advance knowledge through research relevant to social work practice Collaborate with practitioners in an array of related disciplines Conduct action research in partnership with community organizations and groups Communicate evidence-informed social work knowledge through teaching and publication Continue the legacy of social work through research, leadership and teaching During their first two years, students will take courses in social work theory, practice and methods. Each semester includes two courses and an independent study during which the student will work with an academic advisor to develop their scholarly portfolio and Advanced Practice Project. DSW courses are be taught by Tulane School of Social Work faculty as well as select nationally prominent social work scholars. For a list of courses, please review our program of study. Classes taught by visiting professors will vary by year and their formats may be adapted to maximize offerings. Plan of Study Grid Year 1 Fall Credit Hours SOWK 9010 Portfolio Planning Seminar I 1 SOWK 9101 Leader Evidence Inform Pract 4 SOWK 9102 Theory, Models & Methods 4 Credit Hours 9 Spring SOWK 9020 Portfolio Planning Seminar II 1 SOWK 9203 Hist Policy Social Welfare 4 SOWK 9204 Quant Method Research 4 Credit Hours 9 Summer Session SOWK 9030 Portfolio Planning Seminar III 1 SOWK 9200 Program & Clinical Evaluation 4 SOWK 9210 Qualitative Mehtd & Analy 4 Credit Hours 9 Year 2 Fall SOWK 9040 Portfolio Planning Seminar IV 1 SOWK 9205 Pedagogy Development 4 SOWK 9206 APP Research Ethics 4 Credit Hours 9 Spring SOWK 9307 Applied Social Statistics 4 SOWK 9308 Nonprofit Mgmt & Development 4 SOWK 9450 Portfolio Dev Seminar V 1 Credit Hours 9 Summer Session SOWK 9309 Comm Adv & Part Research 4 SOWK 9310 APP Grant Writing 4 SOWK 9460 Portfolio Seminar VI 1 Credit Hours 9 Year 3 Fall SOWK 9470 Portfolio Develop Seminar VII 1 SOWK 9480 Portfolio Develop Seminar VIII 1 Credit Hours 2 Total Credit Hours 56 Note. Schedule is based on Fall start, beginning classes in  Spring or Summer will result in a slight change in the order of classes. Immersion As part of the DSW curriculum students will complete a 4 day immersion project in New Orleans, Louisiana.  The academic residency will occur during the summer semester and provides an opportunity to network with fellow students and faculty. The residency experience is designed to emphasize applied learning and identifying program outcomes in partnership with a local social service agency.  Students will require skills useful in conducting action research with community organizations and further develop a critical frame for designing real world program and clinical evaluations. The immersion program will also provide an opportunity to identify program evaluation or action research questions consistent with their Advanced Practice Project and further develop their APP proposal. Advanced Practice Project Students are encouraged to develop a possible topic for their advanced practice project early in their doctoral study. Once a topic has been selected, a three-member committee will review a formal proposal and provide feedback to the student. Final approval of the proposal as fulfillment of a requirement for candidacy for the degree is granted only upon fulfillment of all other requirements for candidacy, including 56 hours of required courses and successful defense of the proposed project. Program Faculty DSW courses are by Tulane School of Social Work professors and visiting faculty from a variety of social science disciplines, including social work, sociology, urban studies and psychology. Our visiting faculty are nationally renowned experts in their Geld, bringing with them expertise in grant-writing, program evaluation, academic publication and public policy.

During their first two years, students will take courses in social work theory, practice and methods. Each semester includes two courses and an independent study during which the student will work with an academic advisor to develop their scholarly portfolio and Advanced Practice Project. DSW courses are be taught by Tulane School of Social Work faculty as well as select nationally prominent social work scholars. For a list of courses, please review our program of study. Classes taught by visiting professors will vary by year and their formats may be adapted to maximize offerings. Plan of Study Grid Year 1 Fall Credit Hours SOWK 9010 Portfolio Planning Seminar I 1 SOWK 9101 Leader Evidence Inform Pract 4 SOWK 9102 Theory, Models & Methods 4 Credit Hours 9 Spring SOWK 9020 Portfolio Planning Seminar II 1 SOWK 9203 Hist Policy Social Welfare 4 SOWK 9204 Quant Method Research 4 Credit Hours 9 Summer Session SOWK 9030 Portfolio Planning Seminar III 1 SOWK 9200 Program & Clinical Evaluation 4 SOWK 9210 Qualitative Mehtd & Analy 4 Credit Hours 9 Year 2 Fall SOWK 9040 Portfolio Planning Seminar IV 1 SOWK 9205 Pedagogy Development 4 SOWK 9206 APP Research Ethics 4 Credit Hours 9 Spring SOWK 9307 Applied Social Statistics 4 SOWK 9308 Nonprofit Mgmt & Development 4 SOWK 9450 Portfolio Dev Seminar V 1 Credit Hours 9 Summer Session SOWK 9309 Comm Adv & Part Research 4 SOWK 9310 APP Grant Writing 4 SOWK 9460 Portfolio Seminar VI 1 Credit Hours 9 Year 3 Fall SOWK 9470 Portfolio Develop Seminar VII 1 SOWK 9480 Portfolio Develop Seminar VIII 1 Credit Hours 2 Total Credit Hours 56 Note. Schedule is based on Fall start, beginning classes in  Spring or Summer will result in a slight change in the order of classes. Immersion As part of the DSW curriculum students will complete a 4 day immersion project in New Orleans, Louisiana.  The academic residency will occur during the summer semester and provides an opportunity to network with fellow students and faculty. The residency experience is designed to emphasize applied learning and identifying program outcomes in partnership with a local social service agency.  Students will require skills useful in conducting action research with community organizations and further develop a critical frame for designing real world program and clinical evaluations. The immersion program will also provide an opportunity to identify program evaluation or action research questions consistent with their Advanced Practice Project and further develop their APP proposal. Advanced Practice Project Students are encouraged to develop a possible topic for their advanced practice project early in their doctoral study. Once a topic has been selected, a three-member committee will review a formal proposal and provide feedback to the student. Final approval of the proposal as fulfillment of a requirement for candidacy for the degree is granted only upon fulfillment of all other requirements for candidacy, including 56 hours of required courses and successful defense of the proposed project. Program Faculty DSW courses are by Tulane School of Social Work professors and visiting faculty from a variety of social science disciplines, including social work, sociology, urban studies and psychology. Our visiting faculty are nationally renowned experts in their Geld, bringing with them expertise in grant-writing, program evaluation, academic publication and public policy.