Trauma Focused School Psychology Certificate (Graduate) Overview Requirements Students enrolled in the School Psychology Ph.D. program can apply to complete a certificate program that provides specialized trauma-focused training. Doctoral students completing this specialized training will be prepared to deliver comprehensive school mental health services with the goals of preventing trauma and treating youth exposed to trauma. Students complete all of the usual requirements of the Ph.D. program plus the requirements of the trauma specialization certificate. School Psychology Ph.D. students who complete the trauma specialization requirements will earn a trauma specialization graduate certificate when their Ph.D. is awarded. Course List Course ID Title Credits Required Course PSYC 6590 Stress & Trauma 3 One additional research methodology / statistics course: 1 3 PSYC 7450 Linear Structural Modeling PSYC 7424 Advanced Seminar II PSYC 7440 Advanced Seminar IV PSYC 6100 Rsch Methods Behav Hlth PSYC 7420 Advanced Seminar II PSYC 7943 Advanced Psychology Statistics - Transfer Two years of practicum 12 PSYC 7823 Practicum in School Psyc (Two years of practicum (Psyc 7823) with community agencies providing trauma-focused comprehensive school mental health services in New Orleans public schools. These practicum experiences include specialized training in evidence-based interventions. ) Research relevant to stress and trauma Students will complete at least one mentored, independent research project, a MS thesis (Psyc 9980), or a PhD dissertation (Psyc 9990) focused on stress, trauma, adversity, and / or related constructs. PSYC 9980 Masters Research PSYC 9990 Dissertation Research Disciplinary Leadership Experience 2 1 To complete the School Psychology doctoral program all students must take either Psyc 7424 (Qualitative Methods) or Psyc 6100 (Research Methods in Behavioral Health). If a student completes both courses, the course taken second will fill the additional methods requirement for the certificate. 2 Disciplinary leadership experiences require a written MOU that documents a plan with the following five elements: 1. The selection of an advisor. If the advisor is neither of the Specialization co-directors, doctoral students are also required to select one of the co-directors as a co-advisor. 2. A formal learning experience that will occur 1) in a course, 2) in a series of workshops, or 3) under formal mentorship with an independent learning plan. 3. An applied practice or service element. Examples are described with the options below. 4. A final product, which could include a written paper, policy report, preparation of a training workshop, “graduate student corner” Communiqué submission, etc. 5. Participation in program-wide shared learning through 1) discussing your project in a large group setting (i.e., large group supervision, colloquium, brown bag), and 2) placing your final product in the program’s repository. Students may choose from one of the following five Disciplinary Leadership options, or petition to design their own: Higher education pedagogy and instruction. Complete CELT 7010, 7020, and 7030, a 3-credit teaching sequence.* Final product could include a guest lecture, large group presentation, or school-based professional development presentation. *Note that the CELT course is spread over three semesters. Research to practice communication. Identify an area of scholarship that is ripe to translate for a practice audience and co-write an article (final product) with your mentor for Communiqué or another practice-oriented publication. Advocacy. Complete pre-training advocacy workshops and/or an advocacy training day, research your topic for discussion with legislators and complete a “Hill visit” in DC or Baton Rouge through a professional organization or advocacy group. Final product could include a policy brief. Hill visits may cost money; travel and training funding can be sought through the various graduate student travel funding options. Policy. Select a policy organization for a semester-long placement, during which time you will complete a policy-relevant project that aligns with the organization’s goals and needs. The project will require partnering with the organization, understanding their needs, conducting research, and preparing a useful final product for the organization such as a policy brief, website, or white paper. Example organizations may include the NOLA Health Department, the Mayor’s Office, CYPB, LPHI, Agenda for Children, the International Institute for Child Rights and Development, LACCR, the UP Institute, LCRC, and Beloved Communities. Crisis Intervention Training. Participate in the NASP PREPaRE Model’s training sequence to become a trainer. Final product is certification as a trainer, which includes delivery of the training. Participating in this training may cost money; travel and training funding can be sought through the various graduate student travel funding options. Petition to create your own disciplinary leadership experience. * Catalog Addenda Note: Minor curricular adjustments were made to this certificate in Spring 2024.

Course List Course ID Title Credits Required Course PSYC 6590 Stress & Trauma 3 One additional research methodology / statistics course: 1 3 PSYC 7450 Linear Structural Modeling PSYC 7424 Advanced Seminar II PSYC 7440 Advanced Seminar IV PSYC 6100 Rsch Methods Behav Hlth PSYC 7420 Advanced Seminar II PSYC 7943 Advanced Psychology Statistics - Transfer Two years of practicum 12 PSYC 7823 Practicum in School Psyc (Two years of practicum (Psyc 7823) with community agencies providing trauma-focused comprehensive school mental health services in New Orleans public schools. These practicum experiences include specialized training in evidence-based interventions. ) Research relevant to stress and trauma Students will complete at least one mentored, independent research project, a MS thesis (Psyc 9980), or a PhD dissertation (Psyc 9990) focused on stress, trauma, adversity, and / or related constructs. PSYC 9980 Masters Research PSYC 9990 Dissertation Research Disciplinary Leadership Experience 2 1 To complete the School Psychology doctoral program all students must take either Psyc 7424 (Qualitative Methods) or Psyc 6100 (Research Methods in Behavioral Health). If a student completes both courses, the course taken second will fill the additional methods requirement for the certificate. 2 Disciplinary leadership experiences require a written MOU that documents a plan with the following five elements: 1. The selection of an advisor. If the advisor is neither of the Specialization co-directors, doctoral students are also required to select one of the co-directors as a co-advisor. 2. A formal learning experience that will occur 1) in a course, 2) in a series of workshops, or 3) under formal mentorship with an independent learning plan. 3. An applied practice or service element. Examples are described with the options below. 4. A final product, which could include a written paper, policy report, preparation of a training workshop, “graduate student corner” Communiqué submission, etc. 5. Participation in program-wide shared learning through 1) discussing your project in a large group setting (i.e., large group supervision, colloquium, brown bag), and 2) placing your final product in the program’s repository. Students may choose from one of the following five Disciplinary Leadership options, or petition to design their own: Higher education pedagogy and instruction. Complete CELT 7010, 7020, and 7030, a 3-credit teaching sequence.* Final product could include a guest lecture, large group presentation, or school-based professional development presentation. *Note that the CELT course is spread over three semesters. Research to practice communication. Identify an area of scholarship that is ripe to translate for a practice audience and co-write an article (final product) with your mentor for Communiqué or another practice-oriented publication. Advocacy. Complete pre-training advocacy workshops and/or an advocacy training day, research your topic for discussion with legislators and complete a “Hill visit” in DC or Baton Rouge through a professional organization or advocacy group. Final product could include a policy brief. Hill visits may cost money; travel and training funding can be sought through the various graduate student travel funding options. Policy. Select a policy organization for a semester-long placement, during which time you will complete a policy-relevant project that aligns with the organization’s goals and needs. The project will require partnering with the organization, understanding their needs, conducting research, and preparing a useful final product for the organization such as a policy brief, website, or white paper. Example organizations may include the NOLA Health Department, the Mayor’s Office, CYPB, LPHI, Agenda for Children, the International Institute for Child Rights and Development, LACCR, the UP Institute, LCRC, and Beloved Communities. Crisis Intervention Training. Participate in the NASP PREPaRE Model’s training sequence to become a trainer. Final product is certification as a trainer, which includes delivery of the training. Participating in this training may cost money; travel and training funding can be sought through the various graduate student travel funding options. Petition to create your own disciplinary leadership experience. * Catalog Addenda Note: Minor curricular adjustments were made to this certificate in Spring 2024.