US Public Policy Minor Overview Requirements The Tulane Summer Minor Program in U.S. Public Policy will give students a foundation for graduate school in public policy or a policy-oriented career in business or government at the local, state, or national level. Students complete relevant coursework and participate in service learning that together provide them with tools in the analysis of policy, knowledge in substantive policy areas, and experience in local government. Students completing the minor will fulfill one of Tulane’s service learning graduation requirements. A minor in public policy requires 5 courses (15 hours/credits), including: Course List Course ID Title Credits ECON 1010 Intro to Microeconomics (Can be taken prior to or subsequent to the summer program.) 3 POLA 3240 Public Policy (Should be taken prior to or as part of the summer program. ) 3 POLA 4110 Policy Research Shop (This class creates a partnership between city goverment and Tulane students in order to address issues of concern to the city and to increase students' civic engagement. In this course, the professor solicits policy topics from local elected and appointed officials and bureaucrats and their students write policy briefs on these issue areas. In exchange for the policy brief, policy sponsors agree to allow the students to present their findings at an official forum, such as city council meeting. Students will spend 20 hours during the program working on research for an office in City Hall as part of a required 20-hour service learning element.) 3 Elective 1 Must be taken during summer session 3 Elective 2 Can be taken during the summer session. If it is not taken during the summer, the director of the program must approve that the course will count toward the minor. 3 Total Credit Hours 15 1 If taking only one elective over the summer, students will need to take an additional elective in public policy, which must be approved by the program director. Important Policies Pre-Requisites : There are no prerequisites for the courses during the summer. All courses are open to any student of any major. Prerequisites may be in place during the fall and spring semesters. Minimum Grades : Students must achieve a C average (2.0) across all required coursework. Students cannot take courses in the program as S/U. Non-minor Participation in Program : Courses are open to all students but declared minors will have priority registration. Double-Counting : According to SLA policy, students must have 27 credits in each major that do not also count toward a minor. No courses may overlap between minors.

A minor in public policy requires 5 courses (15 hours/credits), including: Course List Course ID Title Credits ECON 1010 Intro to Microeconomics (Can be taken prior to or subsequent to the summer program.) 3 POLA 3240 Public Policy (Should be taken prior to or as part of the summer program. ) 3 POLA 4110 Policy Research Shop (This class creates a partnership between city goverment and Tulane students in order to address issues of concern to the city and to increase students' civic engagement. In this course, the professor solicits policy topics from local elected and appointed officials and bureaucrats and their students write policy briefs on these issue areas. In exchange for the policy brief, policy sponsors agree to allow the students to present their findings at an official forum, such as city council meeting. Students will spend 20 hours during the program working on research for an office in City Hall as part of a required 20-hour service learning element.) 3 Elective 1 Must be taken during summer session 3 Elective 2 Can be taken during the summer session. If it is not taken during the summer, the director of the program must approve that the course will count toward the minor. 3 Total Credit Hours 15 1 If taking only one elective over the summer, students will need to take an additional elective in public policy, which must be approved by the program director. Important Policies Pre-Requisites : There are no prerequisites for the courses during the summer. All courses are open to any student of any major. Prerequisites may be in place during the fall and spring semesters. Minimum Grades : Students must achieve a C average (2.0) across all required coursework. Students cannot take courses in the program as S/U. Non-minor Participation in Program : Courses are open to all students but declared minors will have priority registration. Double-Counting : According to SLA policy, students must have 27 credits in each major that do not also count toward a minor. No courses may overlap between minors.