EMBA 6160Managing People Internationally(2-3)As organizations globalize, maintaining an effective workforce internationally and working in global teams can be particularly challenging. This course will consider the critical issues necessary for effectively managing people both at home and abroad and help students understand how to effectively manage in a multicultural setting.  We will discuss the critical role that culture plays in shaping the success or failure of an international organization.  In addition, we will discuss how the subtle nuances of culture can lead to conflict, especially in multi-cultural teams.  We will also explore critical skills for global management: problem-solving and conflict management in multicultural settings and the leadership and management of geographically dispersed teams.  Finally, we will discuss the role of HR during mergers & acquisitions.EMBA 6180Accounting for Managers(2)Accounting for Managers focuses mainly on the set of frameworks and methods which serve to measure, analyze, and interpret internal information to support managerial decision making as well as performance evaluation and control. Unlike financial accounting, there is no set of rules and regulations that dictate how internally generated information is reported to management. Therefore, this course focuses on methods of data measurement and interpretation, with particular emphases on: 1) the design of appropriate costing systems; 2) the use of internal information to support managerial decisions; 3) the array of evaluation tools to monitor managerial incentives and performance. The course will also provide a brief review of the financial accounting principles as needed.EMBA 6220Decision Models(2)Examines the art of solving problems under uncertainty. Course topics include descriptive statistics, probability, sampling distributions, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing and simple and multiple regressions. Methods are applied to management problems drawn from marketing, finance, economics, organizational behavior, and operations management.EMBA 6230Marketing Management(2)Analyzes the market-driven corporation with respect to the marketing mix (product, promotion, price and distribution strategy) as it applies to consumer and industrial goods and services in the private and public sectors. Emphasis is placed on the application of the marketing mix through real-world projects.EMBA 6240Operations Management(2)EMBA 6260Financial Management I(2-3)This course provides a rigorous introduction to the field of financial economics. The first section of the course develops an analytical understanding of the time value of money concept, and applies it through basic techniques for the valuation of stocks, bonds, and investment projects.  Various capital budgeting rules are also discussed in this section. The second section focuses on capital markets including the statistical concepts of covariance and diversification and the capital asset pricing model. The third section introduces capital structure policy and discusses the impact of the different financing choices on risk and required return on firm's equity. This section also introduces the notion of weighted average cost of capital.EMBA 6270Financial Management II(2-3)This course builds directly on the material covered in Financial 
Management I. The course focuses on the key policy decisions made in corporate finance and discusses their impact on firm and shareholder value. The course will include an in-depth analysis of firms' financing choices and capital structure and their role in capital budgeting decisions. The course also introduces the different discounted cash flow valuation techniques for the valuation of corporate cash flows. The last third of the course focuses on options, option pricing, and applications of option pricing in corporate finance including warrant and convertible bond valuation.EMBA 6280Business Analytics(2)EMBA 6310Strategy Formulation(2-2.5)Increases understanding of the functions and responsibilities of general management. It examines the problems that affect the character and success of an entire enterprise, whether an entrepreneurial venture or a multinational conglomerate.EMBA 6420Leadership & Ethics(2-3)EMBA 6460Legal Environ/Business(2)Introduces the basic concepts of contracts, labor laws, discrimination, torts, partnership, corporations, securities, and bankruptcy and gives students an understanding of the relationships between parties in a typical business setting. Tax consequences relative to various entities used in business transactions are also examined.EMBA 7090Managing The Global Entr(2-4)Focuses on the structure and processes of management, particularly those of a global organization, and simulates upper-level management activities of the global enterprise. Course objectives include developing an integrated understanding of strategic and operational decision-making in a global enterprise from a general management perspective.EMBA 7120Managerial Perspective(1-2)Provides a framework for analyzing and identifying key management issues and developing plans for action. Study focuses on identifying what managers do, what distinguishes effective management, how managers make decisions, and what makes a company excellent.EMBA 7160Economics for Managers(2)EMBA 7260Supply Chain Management(2.5-3)EMBA 7320Negotiations(2-3)Explores the behavioral processes and phenomena which are inherent in virtually all types of negotiations. Emphasis is on systematic preparation of a negotiating strategy. In-class negotiation exercises and extensive debriefings are used by participants to test and evaluate their strategies and tactics.EMBA 7370Cases In Finance(2)Through case analysis, this course explores ways to value different types of business enterprises. The course emphasizes discounted cash flow methods of valuation, though other methods, such as the method of multiples, the venture capital method, and real options are also introduced. Students develop and practice valuation skills, such as financial forecasting, cash flow measurement, discount rate estimation and continuing value calculation. In addition, students work with a variety of corporate situations, such as LBO's, IPO's, spin-offs, and mergers, in which valuation plays a key role.EMBA 7380Intl Business Management(1-3)EMBA 7390Financial Statemt Analys(2)Explores the principles and techniques for understanding and interpreting financial statements, including statement comparability, income measurement and disclosure, cash flow analysis, ratio analysis and the disaggregation of ratios, quality of earnings, account analysis, and footnote disclosures. The financial relationships of the accounting model are applied to published financial statements.  Cases are used extensively.EMBA 7410Change Management(2)Examines the key aspects of leading a successful organizational change.  The course analyzes both successful and unsuccessful change management efforts, allowing students to practically apply readings and discussions to individual organizational experiences.  The course will build a framework for leading a successful organizational change.EMBA 7430Global Strategy(2-3)Designed to integrate and summarize all core EMBA course work, this course is based on a global management simulation in which teams of students compete against each other for business success within the global market arena while utilizing “real-world” decision making, strategy formulation, problem-solving, and competitive challenges. Teams must analyze the economic conditions of the simulated global environment, insure smooth production, and understand their products relative to their customers, use accounting data to evaluate results and make decisions, finance operations, determine research and development targets, market products, manage employees and the team and respond to the global competition.EMBA 7450Managemnt Communications(2-3)Focuses on the different ways managers communicate within organizations and on the different ways companies communicate with both internal and external constituencies, including employees, shareholders, regulators, the public, etc. The practical emphasis is on student exercises and includes informal individual briefings, formal group presentations, and media events during crisis situations. The course also uses video and print media extensively to illustrate good and poor communication efforts on the part of existing corporations over the past several years, including examples from the oil and chemical industries, the mining industry, the tobacco industry, the accounting/consulting industry, and the wine/beer industry. Additional focus is on cross-cultural communication issues between the U.S., Asia, and Latin America through the use of international cases and various national ad campaigns. Students are encouraged to draw on their experiences and materials from their own backgrounds and companies.EMBA 7460Entrepreneurship Mgmt.(2)Conveys skills and modes of analysis that will be used directly in initiating or acquiring, managing, and harvesting a new venture. Concepts are also applicable to venturing within an existing corporation. Students will be expected to apply tools and theories learned in functional area core courses and additional knowledge gained from this class to the analysis of cases, a venture feasibility analysis process, and the formulation of a business plan.EMBA 7510Portfolio Theory(1.5-2)This course examines the foundations of investment theory and practice. It begins by elaborating the concepts of risk and risk aversion, wealth allocation between risky and riskfree assets, and optimally risky portfolios. The course proceeds to develop various asset-pricing models, paying special attention to the CAPM and APT. The course will also examine the concept of market efficiency and review the empirical evidence for and against efficiency. The second half of the course examines theories and strategies for managing investment portfolios. This includes surveying how securities are actually traded and cleared. It then examines theories of active portfolio management ranging from the Peter Lynch approach to more formal models such as the Treynor-Black model. Issues of asset allocation, extended (e.g. global and real asset) diversification, and investment company organization and policy formation are studied. The course concludes with a study of portfolio performance measurement.EMBA 7520Leadership and Ethics(2)This course focuses on leadership and ethics in business and society.  Leadership will be analyzed in terms of personal characteristics of great leaders (what are the qualities that great leaders possess and how do we develop those qualities?) and also functional perspectives (what are the most important tasks of leaders in business?).  Ethics will be examined in practical ways.  Students will consider various philosophical perspectives on business ethics, but the course’s main focus will be peer group conversations about ethical issues.  Students will analyze ethical dilemmas and participate in role playing exercises to provoke discussion and cultivate their common sense about ethical challenges.  Students will also consider how organizations can prevent misconduct and respond to an ethical crisis.  Throughout the course, cultural differences in leadership and ethics will be emphasized.EMBA 7550Performance Management(2)One of the cornerstones of human resource practice in any organization, performance management shifts the common focus on an annual evaluation of employee performance to an ongoing process that includes establishing an organizational climate for success, setting and aligning goals, coaching and developing employees, formally evaluating performance, and linking performance to recognition and rewards. This course will expose students to current thinking, strategies, and evidence-based best practices in these areas of performance management by incorporating perspectives of leading practitioners, consultants, and researchers in the field. The course will be conducted in an interactive and participative manner. Learning will be facilitated through lecture and discussion, case studies, interactive exercises, and student presentations.EMBA 7570Global Business Envirnmt(2-3)EMBA 7590Corporate Strategy(2)This course is designed to provide experienced executives with practice-oriented, nuanced, in-depth knowledge of the various aspects of the corporate strategy of the firm. “Corporate strategy” means managing the firm’s scope – in other words, managing a corporation as a portfolio of businesses: What business units should the company have in order to maximize the shareholders’ value? How should it acquire new lines of business? How should it divest the units it no longer wants? What should be the extent of the units’ autonomy?  In this class, students will improve their understanding of what makes a portfolio of businesses under a single corporate umbrella more or less valuable. Students will also develop and hone the decision-making tools for properly structuring and executing acquisitions and alliances under different business situations.EMBA 7610Options(2)This course will develop state-of-the-art quantitative tools for evaluating large, complex investment projects that cannot be evaluated in a satisfactory manner with standard discounted cash flow techniques. Issues covered include risk-adjusted probability measures and an introduction to modeling project cash flows as financial options. The course will also address financing and distribution policies and restructuring strategies with a special focus on the energy industry. The second half of the course will include valuing capital projects using discrete time and continuous time option pricing models. Special attention will be paid to actual and strategic real option problems in energy finance such as off-shore exploration and power plant management. (2 credit hours)EMBA 7620Corp Risk Management(2)Corporations face a variety of risks including interest rate risk, commodity price risk, foreign exchange rate risk, counter party default risk and political risk in addition to the usual business risks of their chosen fields of operation. This course analyzes the corporate decision to hedge (or not to hedge) focusing on how these decisions maximize shareholder value. The course explores ways in which firms manage their exposure to product market and financial risk and provides a balanced treatment of commodity price, interest rate, and currency risks. Topics include swaps, financial futures, FRAs, options and other recent innovations in the derivatives markets. The issue of counter party default risk and risk management approaches such as VAR (value-at risk) are also studied.EMBA 7630International Finance(1-3)EMBA 7660Managing Innovation(2)This course provides experienced executives with practice-oriented, powerful analytical frameworks for better managing their company’s innovation process and increasing its success rate of bringing innovations to market. “Managing innovation” means creating effective internal processes to sense innovation trends, to invest in the “right” portfolio of innovation projects, and to better understand the factors causing innovations to succeed or fail in the market. How can companies sense future innovations and shape these innovation opportunities to their advantage? Which projects should we invest in to create a portfolio that balances our company’s needs for both short-term profits and long-term growth? What implications do disruptive technologies have for our company and its industry? How likely is an innovation to restructure the basis of competition in our industry and threaten our current competitive advantage?EMBA 7920Independent Study(2-3)EMBA 7960Global Business Project(0-1)