PRES 2100Intro to Historic Preservation(3)This course offers an overview of cultural heritage management, in particular
architectural preservation, in different parts of the world. Coursework will chart the
evolution of the preservation field from a lay interest to discipline and profession and
address its prevailing theories, accomplishments, and their effects. The course examines motives for preservation, its benefits, how preservation valorizes heritage sites, and how heritage protection is now truly a global concern.PRES 2120History of American Architecture(3)This course is an investigation of indigenous, vernacular, and historical American
architecture from 1500 to 1920; evolution of construction technologies, changing building forms, and finish treatments; identification of historic architectural styles and their influence on 21st-century American architecture.PRES 2220Conservation Techology(3)Conservation Technology is an introduction to the composition and properties of historic building materials and the techniques used for their conservation. Lectures, readings and demonstrations are presented focusing on the basics of conservation science, historic building materials and preservation treatments. Students will participate in hands-on demonstrations and exercises to gain a better understanding of the materials and techniques used for architectural conservation.PRES 2930Special Topics(3)The Special Topics course is used for introductory level new and onetime offerings in the Historic Preservation Program. Course content will vary from semester to semester. Contact the program for information on particular offerings. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Maximum Hours:99PRES 2931Special Topics(3)The Special Topics course is used for introductory level new and onetime offerings in the Historic Preservation Program. Course content will vary from semester to semester. Contact the program for information on particular offerings. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Maximum Hours:99PRES 4560Preservation Internship(3)The Historic Preservation Internship course requires 200 hours of work for a preservation agency, a suitable non- profit, or a restoration firm. An internship may be a special project or daily work for the organization, but the activities must be meaningful and contribute to the student’s professional development. Students gain practical experience by working in a professional situation and are required to submit a diary and a report about their work.PRES 4910Independent Study(1-6)The Independent Study course gives upper-level undergraduate students an opportunity to work with a faculty advisor to pursue a personal academic interest with greater focus.
Qualified students must develop a syllabus and schedule with the help of the faculty
advisor. The course must be approved by the Historic Preservation Program Director prior to registration. Course may be repeated up to two timesCourse Limit:2PRES 4930Special Topics(3)The Special Topics course is used for new and onetime offerings in the Historic
Preservation Program. Course content will vary from semester to semester. Contact the program for information on particular offerings. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Maximum Hours:99PRES 6041Preservation Studio I(6)This studio is the beginning orientation course that examines all aspects of preservation concerns related to the individual building or group of buildings. The student will learn how to analyze the condition of the building(s) and its (their) context. The studio will examine the differences between building stabilization, adaptive reuse, renovation and restoration. A travel and research component will use real life experiences to illustrate the interdisciplinary nature of preservation in the Americas. An internship in an area of personal choice (such as house museum, community action organization, governmental agency, heritage education or community renewal program) will be developed during this studio.PRES 6042Preservation Studio II(6)Preservation Studio II concentrates on documenting, analyzing and planning for the
preservation of groups of buildings and their settings as a basis for understanding the
technical, theoretical and procedural aspects of urban conservation. The course includes intensive study of representative historic residential and commercial districts including streetscapes in the New Orleans region where students work both as independent researchers and in teams to learn professional preservation planning concepts and methods. This studio examines sites comprising historic buildings representing different styles and periods in various conditions where choices in restoration versus rehabilitation versus new work must be considered. Solutions for such situations will be explored with respect to current architectural preservation planning principles and procedures.PRES 6050Heritage Risk Lab(1-6)The Heritage Risk Lab builds expertise in understanding, planning for, and mitigating
the impacts of climate change is one of the greatest societal challenges of the 21st century. Heritage resources are a vital category of cultural assets that will be affected by these global events and trends. Cultural heritage, encompassing a broad array of materials and spaces, including archaeological sites, historic buildings and structures, and cultural landscapes, provides tangible connections to the past for communities, a sense of a shared identity, and crucial economic development opportunities. Ensuring their durability for future generations is pivotal for healthy, sustainable communitiesPRES 6100Introduction to Historic Preservation(3)This course offers an introduction to the field of Historic Preservation in the United
States through an exploration of its historical evolution, principles, ethics, theory,
methodology, and contemporary practice. It further introduces components of the
discipline and explains the role of each through dialogue with active practitioners
and case study assessments.PRES 6120History American Architecture(3)This course examines the development of vernacular architectural forms from the 17th to 19th centuries in North America and the Caribbean. The course will cover a wide range of buildings and landscapes, ranging from domestic structures, public sites, and urban landscapes to churches. Taking a thematic and critical approach, this course will also explore the development of construction technologies and the evolution of building forms.
Most importantly, the material will probe the differing meanings of architectural forms and spaces by people in the past. Students will read scholarship written by preeminent scholars in vernacular architectural studies and be asked to critically evaluate the field’s methods and interpretations. Class meetings will include lectures, discussions on selected topics, and student presentations.PRES 6130Archival and Historical Research Methods(3)This course that serves as an introduction to the core elements of archival and
documentary research with a strong focus on property records and tracking architectural modifications over time through historic and contemporary documentation. The course includes site-based visits to local archival repositories as well as an exploration of digital resources, and discussions on the interpretation and reliability of primary and secondary source data. Students will complete short assignments focused on archival literacy and proficiency, additionally they will undertake a final research project that explores the history of a property in New Orleans by utilizing the resources presented throughout the course.PRES 6151New Orleans Architecture(3)This illustrated course examines New Orleans architecture from the city’s founding in 1718 to the present time, as well as its historic neighborhoods. The city’s architectural legacy will be explored from the standpoint of broad architectural stylistic trends, their relationship to national and international trends, the forces and architects that helped shape the styles, and local building types. Thirty-eight architectural styles will be examined, including Colonial, Revivals, Aesthetic, Eclectic, Arts and Crafts, and Modern Movements. Identifying characteristics and materials of each style will be discussed through numerous illustrations demonstrating the variety of each style based on the most current research.PRES 6210Architectural Conservation Lab(6)This course will focus on detailed analysis of architectural building materials. Through
hands-on experiences, lectures, readings, and laboratory exercises students will better understand the performance and physical properties of historic building materials and traditional building systems, providing a basic knowledge so that they might be able to identify deterioration mechanisms and formulate interventions.PRES 6220Conservation Technology(3)This course will provide an overview of preservation technology and building materials conservation. This is the study of historic building materials and the technical means used to document, diagnose, analyze and design interventions to preserve these materials. It is, in the most basic sense, the technical means by which to accomplish preservation. It involves the examination and treatment of historic and cultural resources utilizing an established system of principles and procedures based on a foundation of preservation theory and methodology.PRES 6310Digital Tools in Historic Preservation(3)The course provides advanced training in digital documentation technology, geographic information systems (GIS), and database platforms for the collection, management, and dissemination of preservation data and interpretation.PRES 6510Preservation Professional Development(1)A one-credit professional development course will prepare students to enter the preservation workforce through the development of practical skills. Course content includes professional development workshops and guest lectures from practitioners discussing their career paths and informing students on the breadth of the field of preservation.PRES 6520Environmental Law: Historic Preservation(2)This course provides an in-depth examination of historic preservation legislation at the Federal, State, and Local levels including its origins, effects, and application for use in contemporary preservation practice. After an introduction of the subject including special instruction to Preservation students on how to read case law, the course reviews a variety of law cases including their precedents and results.PRES 6530Preservation Economics(3)This course concentrates on the financial aspects of historic architectural preservation including its economic benefits, methods of valuation, and tax incentives. The course involves several guest speakers and considers the perspectives of the key players involved in preservation practice. The latter half of the course analyzes the professional practice of preservation including current trends and future directions. Strategies for entering and succeeding in the cultural heritage management profession conclude this course.PRES 6540Preservation Advocacy(3)This course will examine preservation advocacy using readings, lectures, and field trips as the primary teaching tools. It is meant to be a complement to the Intro to Preservation course, where students learn about the inner workings and practice of historic preservation – this course allows them to see it in action – and as preparation for Spring’s Internship course. Students will learn about methods for the application of historic preservation practice within the United States and its effects from the individuals and organizations pursuing those methods.PRES 6550Preservation Policy and Planning in the United States(3)This course introduces American policy and planning that shape and affect historic districts, sites, and registries, both locally and nationally. Past, present and emergent policies and plans discussed include: federal legislation, state master plans, and municipal preservation ordinances but also the rules, rubrics, and reviews by which various governmental bodies and their consultants and citizen commissions influence development, design, demolition, removal and/or relocation of buildings and other features of the built environment. The course assignments prepare students to meet US employer expectations of experience with Section 106 review and National Register eligibility evaluation and nomination.PRES 6560Preservation Internship(3)The MSHP course requires 200 hours of work for a preservation agency, a suitable non- profit, or a restoration firm. An internship may be a special project or daily work for the organization, but the activities must be meaningful and contribute to the student’s professional development. Students gain practical experience by working in a professional situation and are required to submit a diary and a report about their work.PRES 6570Historic Tax Credits(3)The Preservation Economics course explores the business of financing preservation projects through the lens of real estate development. Students will learn the language of the development community with the goal of using preservation as a tool for mindful, financially feasible projects. With an understanding of tax credits, grants, other incentive programs, and data metrics, students will be able to quantify the value of preservation and be equipped to argue for its economic benefits.PRES 6910Independent Study(1-6)The Independent Study course gives graduate students an opportunity to work with a
faculty advisor to pursue a personal academic interest with greater focus. Qualified
students must develop a syllabus and schedule with the help of the faculty advisor. The course must be approved by the Historic Preservation Program Director prior to
registration. Course may be repeated up to two times.Course Limit:2PRES 6930Special Topics(1-6)The Special Topics course is used for new and onetime offerings in the Historic
Preservation Program. Course content will vary from semester to semester. Contact the program for information on particular offerings. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:2PRES 6980Preservation Research Seminar(3)The Preservation Research Seminar trains students in the methodological process of
undertaking preservation research. Students write drafts of core elements of the Historic Preservation Program’s capstone project, and gain feedback from faculty, committee members, and peers.PRES 6985Preservation Practicum(6)The Practicum for the Historic Preservation Program is an alternative option to the Thesis requirement and is an important part of the MPS course of study. The Practicum is expected to be a concentrated and valuable work experience that the student chooses that must relate to the field of historic preservation. Its accomplishment must entail 480 hours (three months, full-time) work with an organization. There is wide scope with regard to the possible organizations and locations for students to pursue their practicum experience.
With prior approval, students may receive a small stipend or honorarium.PRES 6990Preservation Thesis(6)The Thesis is a major course within the MPS program since it calls upon most of what a student has learned during his or her graduate school experience. There is wide scope with regard to possible topic choices and the location of a thesis subject can be anywhere, although if your thesis is site-specific, you must have some firsthand knowledge of the place by the end of the preceding semester. The thesis topic must relate to the field of historic preservation and its contents should be based mostly on primary research.PRES 9980Thesis Research(0)Thesis research in Preservation Studies.