LGST 3010Legal, Ethical and Regulatory Environment of  Business(3)LGST 3010examines the legal, ethical and regulatory issues that affect business decision-making. The course covers ethical decision-making, including the concepts of professionalism, integrity-based management, compliance-based management and corporate social responsibility.LGST 3010then focuses on the legal, ethical and regulatory issues associated with the legal system; the litigation process; alternative dispute resolution techniques; business torts based on negligence; intent and strict liability, including fraud, product liability, misrepresentations, and misleading advertising; contracts; consumer protection issues; business crimes;  labor and employment law; laws surrounding equal opportunity; and property law, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trade names, and trademarks. Sophomore Standing or Above.Prerequisite(s):ECON 1010andMCOM 3010.LGST 3890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. 
One of the following courses must be taken concurrently: LGST 4040,4100,4110,4120,4140,4150,4160,4170,4175,4180,4210,4220, MGMT 4170,4910,4990,5000, MGMT 4170,MKTG 4275, TAXN 4100.
Course may be repeated. Junior Standing or Above.Prerequisite(s):(LGST 3010) and (LGST 4040*,4100*,4110*,4120*,4140*,4150*,4160*,4170*,4175*,4180*,4210*,4220*,MGMT 4170*orTAXN 4100*).*May be taken concurrently.Maximum Hours:99LGST 4040Preventing Discrimination in Business(3)The course examines the effect of legal and regulatory requirements on business decisions regarding issues of race and inclusion.  The course will focus on the legal requirements as well as ethical implications of business decisions regarding racial and discriminatory issues in a variety of business endeavors including profit and non-profit businesses, higher education, insurance, real estate, banking and finance, advertising and marketing, entertainment, sports and healthcare. This course satisfies the University's race and inclusion requirements.
Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.LGST 4100Business Law(3)LGST 4100examines the fundamental legal element of almost every business transaction – a contract. The course focuses on how businesspeople form and perform contracts under the Uniform Commercial Code. In addition, the course examines negotiable instruments and how they function in the banking system.LGST 4100then focuses on the general rights of creditors and how bankruptcy affects creditor rights. The course also includes material on the structure of business organizations, including mergers and consolidations, and the use of agents in a business setting. The course concludes with a variety of specialized topics including property law, landlord-tenant law, insurance law, estate law and professional liability law. This course is required for Legal Studies in Business majors.
Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.LGST 4110Legal Writing & Research(3)LGST 4110develops fundamental legal writing skills and acquaints the student with the essential resources of computerized legal databases. Students learn the techniques of legal problem-solving and practice how to research and draft legal memoranda and briefs through a series of progressively more complex written assignments. This course is required for Legal Studies in Business majors.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010*.*May be taken concurrently.LGST 4120International Business Law(3)LGST 4120introduces students to relevant features of the various legal systems currently governing the conduct of international business – national, regional and worldwide. The course covers the legal issues associated with international trade, licensing and investment. Subjects include the legal risks of international business, international public law, international organizations and private dispute settlement procedures. Also discussed are the risks associated with importing and exporting, foreign licensing and franchising, and foreign investment, as well as environmental regulations. This course also presents policy problems and operational concerns that arise as a result of conflicting laws, gaps in laws, and developing international standards.
Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.LGST 4140Insurance & Risk Management(3)LGST 4140helps students navigate the ever-changing landscape of identifying and analyzing risk. Students learn how to manage risk through insurance and finance techniques that are integral to a firm’s overall risk management plan. Insurance topics include property insurance, commercial liability insurance, health insurance, life insurance and automobile insurance. This class also shows students how risk management impacts critical financial decisions through methods such as loss control, risk retention and risk transfer. An added focus on speculative risk management, in addition to current insurance coverage, makes this class essential for managers who need to understand risk.  Prerequisites:LGST 3010,FINE 3010Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010andFINE 3010.LGST 4150Real Estate Law(3)LGST 4150examines the fundamentals of real estate financing and development from a legal and managerial perspective. The course develops the student's skills in using legal concepts in a real estate transactional setting. The main topics covered include the following: land acquisition, subdivision, construction, permanent loans, joint ventures, management (leasing, environmental), limited partnerships, disposition of real property (sale of a mortgaged property, foreclosures, wraparound mortgages, sale-leasebacks) and recent legal developments.  Prerequisites:LGST 3010.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.LGST 4160Law of E-Commerce(3)This course looks at how courts, legislatures and regulators confront the significant issues of the internet world. Billions of people are now active on social media, and firms such as Google, Facebook, Amazon and Alibaba are among the world's most valuable and influential. The legal interfaces between the physical world and the digital world are therefore increasingly important. In particular, exploitation of personal information online by governments, digital platforms and bad actors is becoming a constant source of significant controversies. The course topics include dispute resolution, cyber torts, crimes, intellectual property issues, risk management, information security and privacy issues.
Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.LGST 4170Employment Law(1-3)LGST 4170examines legal issues associated with the hiring process, such as recruitment; background checks; eligibility; hiring and promoting; and managing a diverse workforce, including affirmative action, harassment and accommodations. The course also covers conditions of employment such as pay, benefits, terms of employment, and so forth; managing performance; and terminating an employee, including terminating union, non-union and public sector employees.
Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.LGST 4175White Collar Crime(3)LGST 4175examines white-collar crime, which is a significant problem in the business world. Major corporations and financial institutions fail because of unlawful activities, resulting in substantial financial losses to Federal, state and local governments, as well as to private organizations and individuals. Whether students plan to pursue careers in business or law, they will need to be familiar with at least the basics of white-collar criminal law. This course covers a variety of subjects, including substantive criminal law, inchoate offenses, the attorney-client privilege, business ethics and corporate criminal liability, as well as many specific offenses such as fraud, obstruction of justice, bribery, environmental crime, computer crimes, currency crimes, insider trading and RICO.
Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.LGST 4180Sports & Entertnmt Law(3)LGST 4180introduces students to the legal principles applicable to the sports and entertainment industries. The first part of the course focuses on entertainment law, and the second half explores sports law. The primary areas of the law that students examine are those relating to contracts, torts, intellectual property, agency, antitrust, labor and employment, as well as the business forms used in the sports and entertainment industries. The course also delves into policy problems and operational concerns that arise as the result of conflicting laws, as well as gaps in the laws applicable to these two industries.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.LGST 4185White Collar Crime II(3)This course builds on concepts introduced in White Collar Crime I (LGST 4175-01), although that course is not a prerequisite. As discussed in White Collar Crime I, white collar crime is a significant problem in the business world. Whether you plan to pursue a career in business or in law, you should be familiar with concepts such as corporate criminal liability and the reasons why otherwise successful business people commit crimes. This course analyzes these important concepts by focusing on high-profile and noteworthy white collar crime cases. Many of these cases went to trial. Others ended in guilty pleas or dismissals but nevertheless involved extensive litigation. After analyzing these cases, you will have a better understanding of the issues prevalent in white collar prosecutions.
Prerequisite:LGST 3010Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.LGST 4200LSAT Review(1)The Law School Admissions Test Review (LSAT) course prepares students for the LSAT, including familiarizing students with the LSAT’s format and structure and developing test-taking strategies. The course is one credit hour taken on an S/U basis, and the course does not count toward the student’s degree requirements. Junior Standing or Above.LGST 4210Mock Trial(1.5)LGST 4210andLGST 4220comprise a year-long course that examines procedural and evidentiary issues involved in case analysis and trial preparation. The course covers ethical decision making, including the concepts of professionalism, negotiations, public speaking, and legal research and writing. The course then focuses on the ethical and legal issues associated with the legal system, specifically the litigation process and alternative dispute resolutions. The course will include simulation exercises involving trial preparation and trial procedures, including motion filing and oral arguments. Trial materials will include subject matter related to business torts based on negligence; intent and strict liability; fraud; products liability; misrepresentations and misleading advertising; contracts; consumer protection issues; business crimes; bankruptcy; labor and employment law; laws surrounding equal opportunity; and property law, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trade names, and trademarks. The course will culminate in student participation in the American Mock Trial Association  competition where students will compete with other undergraduate institutions.
Junior Standing or Above.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.LGST 4220Mock Trial II(1.5)LGST 4210 and LGST 4220 comprise a year-long course that examines procedural and evidentiary issues involved in case analysis and trial preparation. The course covers ethical decision making, including the concepts of professionalism, negotiations, public speaking, and legal research and writing. The course then focuses on the ethical and legal issues associated with the legal system, specifically the litigation process and alternative dispute resolutions. The course will include simulation exercises involving trial preparation and trial procedures, including motion filing and oral arguments. Trial materials will include subject matter related to business torts based on negligence; intent and strict liability; fraud; products liability; misrepresentations and misleading advertising; contracts; consumer protection issues; business crimes; bankruptcy; labor and employment law; laws surrounding equal opportunity; and property law, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trade names and trademarks. The course will culminate in student participation in the American Mock Trial Association competition where students will compete with other undergraduate institutions. 
Junior Standing or Above.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010and4210.LGST 4410Special Topics(1-3)LGST 4550Legal Studies Internship(1)Freeman School majors may elect to do a business internship that will appear as a one-credit, 4000-level course on their transcripts; however, the credit does not apply towards the 122 minimum hours required for a BSM degree. The internship must be related to one of the majors offered through the BSM program, and the internship must apply (within an ongoing business organization) the intellectual capital obtained from first- through third-year Freeman School courses. To obtain approval for the internship, the student must visit the Career Management Center for instructions. The final grade for the internship is given on an S/U basis upon submission of a paper/evaluation to a supervising faculty member in the Career Management Center. This course is normally offered during the summer and fulfills the “curricular practical training” option for students with F-1 visa status.LGST 4890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99LGST 4891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99LGST 4892Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99LGST 4893Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99LGST 4894Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99LGST 4910Independent Study(1-4)Freeman School seniors demonstrating academic excellence are allowed to pursue an Independent Study. The work may take the form of directed readings, laboratory or library research, or original composition. Instead of traditional class attendance, the student substitutes conferences, as needed, with the supervising faculty. An Independent Study requires the approval of the supervising instructor and the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education. The credit does not apply towards the legal studies in business major requirements for a BSM degree; the independent study counts as business elective credit only. Interested students should contact the Office of Undergraduate Education at the Freeman School.
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.Prerequisite(s):LGST 3010.Maximum Hours:99LGST 4990Legal Studies Honors Thesis(3)This course is the traditional thesis option for the Legal Studies in Business area. Students enrolled in this course will begin their theses in the fall semester. They will conclude their theses inLGST 5000in the spring semester. Senior Standing.LGST 5000Legal Studies Honors Thesis(4)This course is the traditional thesis option for the Legal Studies in Business area. Students enrolled in this course will conclude their theses in the spring semester. They will start the theses inLGST 4990in the fall semester. Senior Standing.LGST 5380Business Study Abroad - LGST(1-20)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99LGST 5390Business Study Abroad - LGST(1-20)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99LGST 6000Essentials of Business Law(2)This course introduces the basic concepts of contracts, labor laws, discrimination, torts, partnerships, corporations, securities, and bankruptcy and gives students an understanding of the relationships between parties in a typical business setting. Tax consequences relative to various entities used in business transactions are also examined.LGST 6150Business and Law Seminar(0)This seminar explores the intersection of business and law through readings, discussions, and meetings with guest speakers.LGST 7210Business Law(3)This course provides an overview of the laws that affect private business relationships, including contracts, torts, sales, negotiable instruments, secured transactions, principle-agency relationships, types of business organizations, antitrust, securities regulation, labor laws, administrative laws, and bankruptcy.LGST 7920Independent Study(1-3)Independent study: Business Law.