ANES 4000Anesthesiology(4)Maximum Hours:99ANES 4020Basics of Anesthesiology(2)This course is an introductory course to the practice of Anesthesiology. Students participating in this rotation will be introduced to the most common anesthesia subspecialties including General Anesthesia, Obstetric Anesthesia, Regional Anesthesia, and the Preoperative evaluation process.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ANES 4021Advanced Anesthesiology(2)This course is an advanced course to the practice of Anesthesiology. Students participating in this rotation will be introduced to the advanced anesthesia subspecialties including Cardiac Anesthesia, Neuro Anesthesia, and Transplant Anesthesia. Students will also take part in basic anesthesia cases and the preoperative evaluation process.ANES 4034Point of Care Ultrasound(2)ANES 4040Anesthesiology Research(4)This course is an independent research elective for students in their clinical years: students must identify a faculty PI and negotiate content and deliverables with the faculty.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ANES 5000Introduction To Anesthesiology(1)This elective introduces medical students to the Anesthesiology specialty. The course includes differing combinations of classroom problem-based case discussions, group lectures with other students or residents, and visits to the simulation center and operating rooms. Operating rooms and the simulation center are where students are provided with hands-on experience with endotracheal intubation and the placement of intravenous lines. Supervision is by residents and/or attendings. Discussion topics might include airway management, general vs. regional anesthetic techniques, preoperative & postoperative assessment, intraoperative monitoring, pharmacology, cardiovascular and pulmonary physiology, and co-existing disease, as well as anesthetic complications such as awareness during general anesthesia, malignant hyperthermia, regional anesthetic mishaps, and failed intubation. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ANES 5500Clinical Preceptorship - Anes(1)Preceptorships are available to T1 & T2 students who are interested in the specialty.  Students must identify a physician to shadow.  Students must have their preceptorship approved in advance by the Senior Associate Dean of Admissions and Student Affairs.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ANES 5540Anesthesiology Research(1)5000-level research opportunities are available to T1 & T2 students who are interested in the specialty.  Students must identify a faculty member with whom to conduct research.  Students must have their research prospectus form approved in advance by the Senior Associate Dean of Admissions and Student Affairs.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ANES 9020ANES Visiting Student(2)This rotation is available only to visiting MD students, from US schools of medicine, in the clinical phase of their training: Tulane SOM does not accept visiting students from international schools of medicine.  Visiting MD students must apply through AAMC's VSAS system to be eligible to enroll; pre-clinical visiting MD students are not eligible.  Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99