RCSE 1030Climate Change and Global Rivers(3)This course covers the basic principles of global climate change, global change and the management of water resources above and below ground. The course will begin with a review of the IPCC Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability Summary for Policy Makers and selected readings covering concepts in the UN Sustainable Targets Network draft methodology for corporate water sustainability. From here we will survey large river systems in a compare/contrast modality using the IPCC, UNSDG and SBTN-W frameworks as a lens through which to see future pathways. We will spend the first several weeks in the US on the Colorado and Mississippi River basins. From here we will explore global basins (one per week) including: the Mekong, Amazon, Ganges-Indus, Yellow-Yangtze and the Congo. The course will deliver introductory skills in collaboration, science communication, systems thinking and synthesis, and science diplomacy.RCSE 1040The Gulf Coast in 2100: Sustaining Healthy Ecosystems and Vibrant Community(3)In the 21st century, Gulf Coast ecosystems, communities and economies are under unprecedented threat from the effects of a rapidly changing climate, compounded by pre-existing human and natural factors. This seminar-based course will use a diverse team of instructors and guest discussion leaders to outline the issues and challenges that are underway in the Gulf, and to explore solutions. A second goal will be to explore possible career and advocacy pathways for students to contribute to “Saving the Gulf Coast”.RCSE 1660Special Topics in River Coastal Science and Engineering(3)Special Topics course for Undergraduates at the 1000 level.Maximum Hours:99RCSE 2660Special Topics in River Coastal Science and Engineering(3)Special Topics course for Undergraduates at the 2000 level.Maximum Hours:99RCSE 3010Water Resources Engineering - I(3)This course covers the static and dynamic behavior of incompressible fluids; development of the continuity, energy and momentum equations using the control volume approach; dimensional analysis, similitude and model testing laws; steady, incompressible fluid flow in series, parallel, and branching pressure conduits; and turbulent and laminar boundary concepts.Prerequisite(s):ENGP 1410.RCSE 3660Special Topics in River Coastal Science and Engineering(3)Special Topics course for Undergraduates at the 3000 level.Maximum Hours:99RCSE 4010Water Resources Engineering II(3)This course covers the basic principles of flow in open channels, open channel transitions, pumping system (water and wastewater), flow through hydraulic structures, and drainage analysis. It also includes hydraulics of flow in closed conduits, municipal water distribution systems. The laboratory section of this course focuses on flow measurements and non-uniform flow analysis: e.g., flow over a weir, hydraulic jump, losses through a pipe system, and flow visualization techniques.Prerequisite(s):(RCSE 3010,BMEN 3440orCENG 2320).RCSE 4030Water Resources Engineering III(3)This course covers the basic principles of hydrologic science and their application to the solution of hydraulic, hydrologic, environmental, and water resources engineering problems; environmental restoration and protection techniques. Specifically, the course covers rainfall and catchment properties, hydrologic abstractions, hydrologic measurements, small and midsize catchments hydrology, reservoir routing, hydrologic and hydraulic routing.Prerequisite(s):RCSE 3010orCENG 2320.RCSE 4660Special Topics in River Coastal Science and Engineering(3)Special Topics course for Undergraduates at the 4000 level.Maximum Hours:99RCSE 6010Water Resources Engineering II(3)This course covers the basic principles of flow in open channels, open channel transitions, pumping system (water and wastewater), flow through hydraulic structures, and drainage analysis. It also includes hydraulics of flow in closed conduits, municipal water distribution systems. The laboratory section of this course focuses on flow measurements and non-uniform flow analysis: e.g., flow over a weir, hydraulic jump, losses through a pipe system, and flow visualization techniques.RCSE 6030Water Resources Engineering III(3)This course covers the basic principles of hydrologic science and their application to the solution of hydraulic, hydrologic, environmental, and water resources engineering problems; environmental restoration and protection techniques. Specifically, the course covers rainfall and catchment properties, hydrologic abstractions, hydrologic measurements, small and midsize catchments hydrology, reservoir routing, hydrologic and hydraulic routing.  Graduate students will be given additional writing and presentation assignments.RCSE 6040Coastal Marine Geology(3)Geomorphic features of estuarine, coastal, and continental shelf environments: erosional, depositional, and geochemical processes; field and laboratory methods; emphasis on dynamic coastal environments of the northern Gulf of Mexico.RCSE 6660Special Topics(1-3)Special Topics.
Courses may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99RCSE 6710Open Channel Flow(3)This course covers the principles of open channel hydraulics, and their applications for analysis and design of river channels. Specifically, the course covers open channels classifications and properties, computation of uniform flow, steady gradually varied flow, flow over hydraulic structures (spillways, weirs, gates, culverts, syphons, and pumps), hydraulic jump, flow characteristics in meandering rivers and nonprismatic channels, and unsteady flow. Pre-requisite: Permission of instructor.RCSE 6800Intro to River Science & Eng(3)Rivers drain the majority of non-ice-covered land surfaces on Earth and are the primary conduit for freshwater, minerals, carbon, and dissolved ions to the global ocean. In the 21st century, rivers large and small are being increasingly managed for flood control, as a source of water (agricultural, industrial, potable), recreation and navigation, all of which can have system-wide environmental consequences. Future basin and global-scale climate changes must also be considered in management decisions. This course is designed to be a graduate and advanced undergraduate, interdisciplinary examination of river science and engineering practices that can serve as a springboard to more advanced coursework on the disciplinary aspects covered. It will also be useful to practitioners who require an interdisciplinary overview of river systems to more effectively perform their professional duties.RCSE 6802Introduction to Coastal Science and Engineering(3)With approximately 3 billion people living within 200 kilometers of the world’s coastlines, coastal regions are home to a large and ever-growing population. A broad engineering knowledge is fundamental for the construction, protection, and maintenance of these coastal communities, and a good scientific understanding of the main underlying physical, chemical and ecological processes is particularly necessary considering the climatic changes we are facing in the 21st century. This course is designed to be a graduate and advanced undergraduate, interdisciplinary examination of coastal science and engineering practices that can serve as a springboard to more advanced coursework on the disciplinary
aspects covered. It will also be useful to practitioners who require an interdisciplinary overview of coastal systems to more effectively perform their professional duties.RCSE 6810River and Stream Restoration(3)Rivers and streams are complex ecosystems which have interconnected geologic, geomorphologic, chemical and biological underpinnings. As the demands of human populations have increased over the past several centuries, rivers and streams have often been pushed beyond their ability to maintain the dynamic equilibrium inherent to the system. In recent decades, in an attempt to restore some of the values and functions to these systems, river and stream restoration has emerged as a multi-billion-dollar industry. This course will cover the definitions of river and stream restoration, discuss the planning process associated with solid restoration efforts, present restoration techniques, discuss environmental flows as restoration measures, present commonly applied design concepts and consider how uncertainty, monitoring, and adaptive management may be applied to river and stream restoration efforts.Prerequisite(s):RCSE 6800or SCEN 6800.RCSE 6820Introduction to River-Coastal Hydrologic and Hydraulic Modeling(3)Numerical models are effective and informative research, design, and planning tools. The substantial advancement in computational power has allowed numerical models to be a viable and efficient tool to solve complex problems and improve our understanding of the fundamentals in the water resources field. Therefore, it is critical to provide an in-depth understanding of the basics of numerical modeling techniques and recognize the strengths and limitations of these techniques. This 3 credit hour graduate level introductory modeling
course will provide general overview of the basics of numerical modeling, model development, and applications. This course will also include opportunities for the students to participate in hands-on applications to examine a research, design or a planning problem and explore ways where numerical models can provide usable information to answer or provide insights into these questions.
Permission from instructor required to register.RCSE 6830River Mechanics & Management(3)This course will provide a thorough understanding of the practical application of river mechanics. This science is a critical, but often overlooked component, of any river management project. The River Mechanics and Management course introduces the student to a wide range of river topics related to the engineering and management of river systems. This includes an advanced examination of fluvial processes, channel stability concepts, sediment transport, and design considerations for commonly used engineering features. The course will also provide instruction on designing structural elements to aid in the management of river channels and floodplain. The course will emphasize the interdisciplinary nature of river science and engineering.Prerequisite(s):RCSE 6800.RCSE 6840Methods in River Sampling(3)Tools and procedures developed for sampling and monitoring riverine systems over the last century are distinct from those developed for other aqueous environments. In addition to the need for tools tailored for systems of a wide range of size, energy, and setting, effective river monitoring also needs to capture highly episodic hydrographs that encompass large overbank areas during floods. River monitoring has profound implications in managing rivers for human use and for channel and riparian ecosystem health. Rivers are also highly sensitive to climate, and historical records of their behavior are a key indicator of changing climate on a basin and global scale. This course is designed to examine river sampling as conducted by agencies and academic researchers, including the use of remote sensing, and the collection of ecological, water chemistry, hydrological, sediment dynamics, and morphological evolution data sets. Historical data will be examined to define statistical data analytical procedures.Prerequisite(s):RCSE 6800.RCSE 6850Estuarine Processes(3)Estuaries, where rivers meet the ocean, are among the most productive and dynamic systems on earth, and they are valued for recreation, habitat, and navigation. They are often located in areas with large populations, frequently resulting in intense competition for resources. This class will be taught to convey basic concepts that are important in estuary dynamics. It will include an introduction to estuarine ecology, descriptions of the generation of tides, tie wave propagation within the estuary, the role of salinity and density currents, estuarine sedimentation and an overview of navigation concerns. An emphasis will be placed on understanding the relationships between ecological and physical systems. The class will provide an understanding of ecosystem impacts as a result of physical changes in the estuary. Numerical models are the standard approach for investigating estuary behavior and will be used as a construct to understand estuaries, but prior knowledge of modeling is not required.Prerequisite(s):RCSE 6800.RCSE 6860Environmental Data Analysis in the Anthropocene(3)Scientists, engineers, and planners are increasingly faced with the challenges of a changing environment. These changes can be climate change related – and associated with factors such as sea-level rise, droughts, or heavy precipitation – or result from more local human overprints of the natural landscape (e.g., changes in land use, dredging of rivers, flood protection measures). But they all require, more than ever, tailored data analysis tools to capture transient behaviors, non-stationarity, and new equilibria. This class equips students with the probability, data, and time series analysis tools that they need to interpret a wide range of environmental data - from lab measurements to field observations.Prerequisite(s):RCSE 6800or6802.RCSE 6870Hydroclimatology(3)The course will cover four major themes and their specific methods. First, we will review the physical processes behind precipitation, cloud formation, and hydrological partitioning at small hydrological scales (small catchments and sub-basins) to understand how climate influences and is influenced by energy and water exchange at the planet's surface. Then, we will discuss how land use and coverage changes affect hydro-climatological processes at the regional scale (the size of the Mississippi River basin and a bit below) and how to measure the magnitudes of these changes via micro-meteorological techniques. At the larger synoptic scales, we will learn how climatic modes of variability – like ENSO – influence the hydroclimate. Finally, we will review probabilistic and stochastic methods to estimate hydrologic change from data and project the future with a resilient hydraulic infrastructure in mind.Prerequisite(s):RCSE 6800or6802.RCSE 6900Independent Study(1-3)Independent study on a research topic of choice under the direction of a faculty member.Maximum Hours:99RCSE 7100Seminar in River Coastal Science and Engineering(1)Research seminars led by a speaker with external readings and discussions with the seminar speaker.Course Limit:3RCSE 9980Masters Research(3)Research toward completion of a master degree. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99RCSE 9990Dissertation Research(3)Research toward completion of a doctoral degree. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99