ACCN 2000Introduction to Financial Analysis(3)This single course covers fundamental concepts of financial accounting, managerial accounting, and corporate finance including valuation techniques. The course is designed for students pursuing an Entrepreneurship and Innovation minor but who are not pursuing a BSM major. It does not count towards a BSM degree. BSM students should plan on takingACCN 2010,ACCN 3010, andFINE 3010.ACCN 2010Financial Accounting(3)This BSM prerequisite introduces concepts, techniques and conventions for measuring and communicating the results of operations and the financial position of a business enterprise. It emphasizes the development and the use of financial information reported to the public.ACCN 3010Managerial Accounting(3)Course examines how managers use accounting information to formulate plans, control operations and make informed managerial decisions. Students will learn cost behavior and how to use cost information in managerial decisions. Students will also learn how to develop a corporate budget and gather feedback to ensure that the budget is either properly executed or adjusted.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 2010andINFO 1010.ACCN 3100Intermediate Accounting I(3)Course focuses on understanding how firms’ operating, financing and investing activities are recorded and disclosed in the financial statements, with an emphasis on assets and their related accounts. Throughout this course, students develop the skills required to prepare and analyze corporate financial statements, as well as an understanding of how managerial incentives interplay with financial reporting. The course is appropriate for accounting and finance students, as well as students of other majors who are interested in acquiring an in-depth understanding of firms’ performance using financial accounting information. (Restriction: Sophomore Standing or above.)Prerequisite(s):ACCN 2010,FINE 3010*andMGSC 3010.*May be taken concurrently.ACCN 3290Accounting Analytics(3)This course investigates the use of accounting and related data to provide empirical evidence on business problems. Students focus on the role of the business person rather than the technology person in data analytics. That said, ‘technology’ is still an important part of the course. This course is taught with a hands-on approach and an emphasis on solving problems. So contributing to the class is critical. The objective is to take advantage of accounting data to solve one or more business problems. Through the course students work on all aspects of the data analytics process, including issue identification, data preparation, data analysis, and the communication of results.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 2010.ACCN 4100Auditing(3)Course examines the professional auditing function, particularly emphasizing public accounting. The course is recommended for CPA examination candidates only.  This course is designed to familiarize students with the public company auditing environment and introduce them to the audit process. We will discuss such concepts as the need for financial statement audits, the current audit regulatory environment, audit reports, audit evidence, audit planning procedures, inherent risk, internal control, analytical procedures, statistical sampling, tests of controls and substantive audit tests. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 3100.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 3100.ACCN 4110Intermediate Accounting II(3)Course focuses on understanding how firms’ operating, financing, and investing activities are recorded and disclosed in the financial statements, with an emphasis on liabilities, stockholders’ equity and their related accounts. Throughout this course, students develop the skills required to prepare and analyze corporate financial statements, as well as an understanding of how managerial incentives interplay with financial reporting. The course is appropriate for accounting and finance students, as well as students of other majors who are interested in acquiring an in-depth understanding of firms’ performance using financial accounting information. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 3100andFINE 3010.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 3100andFINE 3010.ACCN 4140Advanced Managerial Accounting(3)Course features quantitative and qualitative approaches to collecting, analyzing, and transmitting cost, revenue, and profit data for internal planning and control. The course also explores the use of current data analysis tools and data visualization to communicate by using problems, large datasets and computer-based cases. The course develops students’ skills for problem identification, data analysis, conclusion justification and impact recognition. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 3010.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 3010.ACCN 4550Accounting Internship(1)Freeman School majors may elect to do a Business Internship that will appear as a one-credit, 4000-level course on their transcripts; however, the credit does not apply towards the 122 minimum hours required for a BSM degree. The Internship must be related to one of the majors offered through the BSM program, and the Internship must apply (within an ongoing business organization) the intellectual capital obtained from first- through third-year Freeman School courses. To obtain approval of the Internship, the student must visit the Career Management Center for instructions. The student receives the final grade for the Internship on a Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory basis upon submitting the paper/evaluation to a supervising faculty member in the Career Management Center. This course
is normally offered during the summer and fulfills the “curricular practical training” option for students with F-1 visa status.ACCN 4570Risk Management, Complex Contracts and Accounting(3)This course provides students with a holistic view of how innovative contracts are used by companies to tailor financing to their customized risk management, leverage and cost of capital needs. Students will learn how to identify and measure risks, evaluate risk management strategies and understand the accounting for these complex transactions. The course also features a significant Data Analytics Component to enable students to use Data to measure, quantify, and even predict risk.Prerequisite(s):FINE 3010andACCN 2010.ACCN 4900Independent Study(1-4)Freeman School seniors who demonstrate academic excellence are allowed to pursue an Independent Study. The work may take the form of directed readings, laboratory or library research, or original composition. Instead of traditional class attendance, the student substitutes conferences, as needed, with the supervising faculty. An Independent Study requires the approval of the supervising instructor and the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education. The credit does not apply towards the Accounting major requirements for a BSM degree; the independent study counts as Business elective credit only. Interested students should contact the Office of Undergraduate Education at the Freeman School. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ACCN 4910Independent Study(1-4)Freeman School seniors who demonstrate academic excellence are allowed to pursue an Independent Study. The work may take the form of directed readings, laboratory or library research, or original composition. Instead  of traditional class attendance, the student substitutes conferences, as needed, with the supervising faculty. An Independent Study requires the approval of the supervising instructor and the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education. The credit does not apply towards the Accounting major requirements for a BSM degree; the independent study counts as Business elective credit only. Interested students should contact the Office of Undergraduate Education at the Freeman School. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ACCN 4920Independent Study(1-4)Freeman School seniors who demonstrate academic excellence are allowed to pursue an Independent Study. The work may take the form of directed readings, laboratory or library research, or original composition. Instead of traditional class attendance, the student substitutes conferences, as needed, with the supervising faculty. An Independent Study requires the approval of the supervising instructor and the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education. The credit does not apply towards the Accounting major requirements for a BSM degree; the independent study counts as Business elective credit only. Interested students should contact the Office of Undergraduate Education at the Freeman School. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ACCN 5380Business Study Abroad - ACCN(1-20)Study aboard course in Accounting.ACCN 5390Business Study Abroad - ACCN(1-20)Study aboard course in Accounting.ACCN 6000Financial Accounting(2)This course introduces basic concepts underlying the reporting of economic activities to external users. It emphasizes the concepts and relationships underlying the income statement, balance sheet, statement of cash flows, and statement of changes in shareholders’ equity. The course also covers ESG accounting standards, and it builds the accounting skills necessary to help understand and value firms, to assess performance, and to effectively engage in the capital markets.ACCN 6010Managerial Accounting(2)This course focuses on measuring and analyzing performance within the firm. It addresses the use of accounting information to make decisions about resource allocations and to evaluate the performance of firms, business units, and managers. It also addresses the use of accounting information as part of an overall control system to ensure that the organization is meeting its financial, environmental, social, and governance objectives.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6000.ACCN 6030Financial Reporting I(3)This is a concept-oriented course that introduces the intensive examination of financial reporting issues and financial statement categories, focusing on the asset side of the balance sheet.ACCN 6040Financial Reporting II(3)This is a concept-oriented course that continues the intensive examination of financial reporting issues and financial statement categories begun in Financial Reporting I, focusing on the liability side of the balance sheet. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6030.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6030.ACCN 6050Accounting Measurement, Reporting, and Control(3)This course introduces basic concepts underlying the measurement and reporting of a business’s economic activities, how to use this information to inform managerial decisions, and how accounting information is used as part of the managerial control system. The course is loosely divided into three topics: 1) The concepts and relationships underlying the income statement, balance sheet and statement of cash flows; 2) Using accounting information to make decisions about resource allocations and to evaluate the performance of firms, business units and managers; and 3) Using accounting information as part of an overall control system to ensure that the organization is meeting its goals. The course is intended as an introduction for individuals who will make business decisions, evaluate other firms, business units, or managers, or be evaluated themselves via accounting information.ACCN 7100Ethics in Accounting and Finance(3)This course focuses on the practice of accounting and finance and what common sense morality (informed by philosophy, professional expectations, and peer conversation) says is ethical. Current ethical questions and controversies in the fields of accounting and finance are explored. Through class exercises, group discussions, presentations, lectures, and readings, students cultivate their own moral sense and improve their capacity for ethical decisions and conduct.ACCN 7110Auditing(3)This course introduces students to the auditing profession with an emphasis on financial statement audits of public and private companies. Fundamental auditing concepts, including how auditors assess and respond to various types of risks, are studied to provide students with a conceptual understanding of audit procedures used in practice.Prerequisite(s):(ACCN 3100and4110) orACCN 6040.ACCN 7120Advanced Financial Accounting(3)Advanced and problem areas in financial accounting and reporting are examined. Topics include the equity method of reporting investments, accounting for mergers and acquisitions, consolidated financial statements, accounting for partnerships, foreign currency transactions, and accounting for governmental and other not-for-profit organizations. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6050or2010.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6050or2010.ACCN 7130Financial Statement Analysis(3)This course provides an overview of the use of financial accounting information for evaluating past performance and predicting future performance of a company or division. Managerial incentives affecting various accounting and reporting policy choices are considered, as well as the related regulatory and ethical issues. While a significant part of the course centers on estimating the value of publicly-traded common stocks, the techniques covered in the course can be used in many other settings, such as credit analysis, management consulting, and auditing. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 2010,6030or6050.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 2010,6030or6050.ACCN 7140Advanced Managerial Accounting(3)This course explores recent developments in managerial accounting theory and practice. The course features quantitative and qualitative approaches to collecting, analyzing, and transmitting cost, revenue, and profit data for internal planning and control, and it uses readings, problems, cases, and computer exercises. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6030,6050or3010.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6030,6050or3010.ACCN 7150Accounting Information Systems(3)Concepts of accounting and computer systems are integrated to develop an understanding of accounting information systems. Through extensive use of computer systems, this course emphasizes the development, use, and maintenance of such systems. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6030,6050or2010.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6030,6050or2010.ACCN 7170Advanced Auditing(3)Conceptual foundations to diverse means by which assurers improve the quality of information used by third parties for contracting purposes are explored. Emphasis is placed on credibility- and relevance-enhancement properties of assurers' services. Topics include the economics of assurance and attestation and concepts including independence, risk, evidence, and control.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 7110or4100.ACCN 7200Accounting Research(3)This course teaches academic research skills in the accounting arena. It applies economics, finance theory, and quantitative methods to study the use of accounting information. Major topics include the evolution of accounting and finance, fundamental analysis, and practical applications of accounting analysis. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6050or (ACCN 2010and3010).Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6050or (ACCN 2010and3010).ACCN 7210Energy Accounting and Valuation(3)This course will cover the fundamentals of the upstream oil and natural gas exploration and production process (E&P or upstream) and the key financial decisions and metrics. The various operational steps and related financial decisions will be followed through to their ultimate impact to a public E&P company’s external financial statements. Students will be able to understand the immediate impact of various decisions on a company’s cash and non-cash financial performance which in turn lead to future financial and operational flexibility and success. Prerequisite(s): ENRG 6000,ACCN 6030,6050or2010.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6030,6050or2010.ACCN 7240Forensic Accounting(3)In the context of this course, “forensic” means “suitable for the courts.” The main areas of forensic accounting are the interpretation of financial statements, fraud, business valuation, and economic damages with specific topics including lost profits, personal injury, wrongful death, bankruptcy, divorce, lost value, embezzlement, graft, money laundering, and fraud investigation and prevention. This course will focus on the concepts and tools that extend the material covered in other accounting courses and will touch on many of the areas covered by the CPA exam. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 7110or4100.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 7110or4100.ACCN 7270Advanced Risk Analytics(3)This course explores concepts of risk and uncertainty applied to the financial management of organizations in achieving business objectives and strategies. Emphasis is placed on the role of data-driven accounting measurement and reporting in the management of such risks.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 2010,6030or6050.ACCN 7280Operational Risk Management(3)This course is for students who want to start their own business, manage a department or even a whole firm. In this course, we study operational risk and
examine how control systems can guard against these risks. We examine how to establish controls that will provide reasonable assurance that the
organization will achieve its overall goals (i.e., strategy) in an effective and efficient manner. We specifically focus on employee control; we will explore
different ways to use the control system to motivate employee effort and to direct this effort towards organizational success. In the course, students extensively
analyze and discuss cases of real organizations.ACCN 7290Accounting Analytics(3)This hands-on course exposes students to all aspects of the data analytics process, including issue identification, data preparation, data analysis, and the communication of results. The primary objective of this course is to integrate knowledge of accounting, business, and data analytics to provide evidence to help solve business problems. Students will improve their ability to communicate information clearly and persuasively using written, verbal, and visual communication strategies. Students will also develop and expand skills in computer-related technologies, using mostly accounting-based datasets, which support the analysis of the problem as well as the communication of the results. Prerequisite(s):ACCN 2010,6030,6050, orENRG 7210.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6030,6050,ENRG 7210orACCN 2010.ACCN 7420Government and Not-for-Profit Accounting(3)This course covers generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that govern the reporting of assets, liabilities, revenues, transfers, expenditures, gains, losses, and net assets of governmental and not-for-profit entities. Discussion of the theoretical underpinnings of GAAP, as well as the “disconnects” still present in governmental GAAP vs. “for profit” GAAP, will be included in this course.
Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6030,6050or2010.Prerequisite(s):ACCN 6030,6050or2010.ACCN 7550Public Accounting Internship(3)The busy season internship is a full-time, paid internship with a major accounting firm in the spring semester. Typically, the internship takes place in the city and state in which the student plans to live and work. Students earn three graduate-level credit hours for the internship, which runs from approximately January 1 through April 15. Because this internship is full-time, students may not take coursework concurrent to the internship. Following completion of the internship, students return to campus for nine credit hours of intensive coursework until mid-May. The busy season internship provides students with a realistic introduction to the accounting profession. Since seniority in most CPA firms is primarily measured by the number of busy seasons worked, graduates who pursue the internship will have a professional advantage over students who graduated the previous May. Students should seek approval forACCN 7550from their MACCT faculty adviser.Prerequisite(s):(ACCN 7110or4100) and (TAXN 7100or4100).ACCN 7560Professional Accounting Internship(1-3)The corporate accounting internship lasts for at least 10 weeks and includes, but is not limited to, accounting-related functions in industry, banking, hospitals, government, not-for-profit, universities, CPA firms, or service organizations. The corporate internship can be part-time and may sometimes be a paid internship. The internship carries responsibilities above entry-level and involves the same difficulty of work and training that any new full-time hire experiences when entering a firm. The student and the firm agree on the schedule of hours, financial arrangements, and field supervision. Students should seek approval forACCN 7560from their MACCT faculty adviser.ACCN 7900Independent Study(1-3)Independent study: Accounting.