Anthropology Minor Overview Requirements Anthropology - the study of humanity in its broadest sense - is, according to Eric Wolf  “the most humanistic of the sciences and the most scientific of the humanities.” At Tulane, anthropology is divided into four subdisciplines: anthropological archaeology, biological anthropology, linguistic anthropology, and sociocultural anthropology. These subdisciplines or fields are interconnected.  The minor is designed to be flexible in terms of each student’s interests, but students must achieve a breadth of courses across at least two of the subdisciplines. Per Newcomb-Tulane College rules, no more than one course can count for both this minor and another major. The anthropology minor requires five 3- to 4-credit hour ANTH classes, of which: at least 4 are at the 2000-level or above at least two anthropological subdisciplines are represented at the 2000+ level A minor in anthropology consists of at least five 3- to 4-credit hour ANTH classes. The only curricular requirement is that of these five classes, only one can be at the 1000-level, and at least one 2000-level (or higher) class must come from a second anthropological subdiscipline (i.e., not all of a student’s upper level classes can be drawn from a single anthropological subdiscipline). The anthropological subdisciplines at Tulane are anthropological archaeology, biological anthropology, sociocultural anthropology, and linguistic anthropology.

A minor in anthropology consists of at least five 3- to 4-credit hour ANTH classes. The only curricular requirement is that of these five classes, only one can be at the 1000-level, and at least one 2000-level (or higher) class must come from a second anthropological subdiscipline (i.e., not all of a student’s upper level classes can be drawn from a single anthropological subdiscipline). The anthropological subdisciplines at Tulane are anthropological archaeology, biological anthropology, sociocultural anthropology, and linguistic anthropology.