ARCH 1001Tactile Design in Architecture(3)At the root of the architecture discipline is the study
of design. In this two-week course, students will focus on analog techniques of design utilizing hand drawing, mixed media exploration, and physical model making. The course will allow students to embrace the tactile facets of the creative process as a foundation of Architecture and its allied fields. You will explore the city of New Orleans with your sketchbook, experiencing the spatial, environmental, and cultural context of New Orleans, while creating beautiful work that will be digitally archived for your professional portfolio.ARCH 1002Digital Design in Architecture(3)This two-week course will focus on visual and spatial communication through digital media. Students will learn the Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, lnDesign) as well as 3d modeling software to express their design ideas. We will explore the realms of digital design, representation, and production as a means of  communicating information in a visual and compelling way. Students will have also the opportunity  to create within our digital laboratory that includes laser cutters, 3d printers, a CNC router, and 3d scanner. You will work with innovative digital tools to compile a portfolio of work that is lively, relevant and professional.ARCH 1003Architecture: Real Estate(3)Real Estate will introduce students to the fundamentals of real estate development, focusing on the complex forces and relationships that shape the built environment. In addition to class time and field trips, students will spend 15-hours of the curriculum collaborating on the Urban Land lnstitute's (ULI) Urban Plan project, which is a nationally recognized case assignment requiring students to form development teams to respond to a "request for proposals" for the redevelopment of a blighted site in a fictional community. The UrbanPlan project is conducted nationally at the high school, undergraduate, and graduate levels.ARCH 1011Architecture Studio(6)As an introduction to the basic fundamental methods and principles of architectural design, students are given an immediate experience of the design process, developing their capacity to conceive, manipulate and analyze architectural form and space. An emphasis on verbal skills, and graphic and material techniques for architectural representation, enable students to express and communicate their ideas. The studio develops the students' capacity for critical thinking through constructive evaluation.ARCH 1012Architecture Studio(6)As an introduction to the basic fundamental methods and principles of architectural design, students are given an immediate experience of the design process, developing their capacity to conceive, manipulate and analyze architectural form and space. An emphasis on verbal skills, and graphic and material techniques for architectural representation, enable students to express and communicate their ideas. The studio develops the students' capacity for critical thinking through constructive evaluation.  Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1011.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1011.ARCH 1110Intro to Architecture(3)As a broad introduction to architecture, this course stresses the diversity of architectural discourse historically and presents the principle works and issues of the architectural profession today. The course serves as both a required foundation for architecture majors/minors and as a general introduction to architectural thought for non-majors. Architecture is a notoriously vast subject with many areas of consensus and a few areas of serious contention. This course will present a generalized framework of architectural thought and help to understand works of architecture and design in the larger cultures they serve.ARCH 1111Topics in Architecture History/Theory(1.5)This is one of four required half-semester courses introducing students to architectural history and theory by exposing them to a broad range of architectural origins, buildings examples and influences. The goal of the architecture history and theory course sequence is to prepare students to become accomplished researchers—well able to connect a useful taxonomy of architectural examples to contemporary issues and ambitions. Each of the courses begins with a contemporary figure in architectural practice and proceeds in a reverse chronology to explore the precedents and linages of thought that have been synthesized in the work of that contemporary practice. Teaching by example, these courses will offer a lesson in how distant antecedents support and continue to inform the discipline today. By exploring both a western and a non-western canon from a broader range of voices and vantage points, students will learn to further contextualize the basic architectural vocabulary acquired in their introductory courses. Corequisite(s):ARCH 1112.Corequisite(s):ARCH 1112.ARCH 1112Topics in Architecture History/Theory(1.5)This is one of four required half-semester courses introducing students to architectural history and theory by exposing them to a broad range of architectural origins, buildings examples and influences. The goal of the architecture history and theory course sequence is to prepare students to become accomplished researchers—well able to connect a useful taxonomy of architectural examples to contemporary issues and ambitions. Each of the courses begins with a contemporary figure in architectural practice and proceeds in a reverse chronology to explore the precedents and linages of thought that have been synthesized in the work of that contemporary practice. Teaching by example, these courses will offer a lesson in how distant antecedents support and continue to inform the discipline today. By exploring both a western and a non-western canon from a broader range of voices and vantage points, students will learn to further contextualize the basic architectural vocabulary acquired in their introductory courses. Corequisite(s):ARCH 1111.Corequisite(s):ARCH 1111.ARCH 1121History and Theory of Architecture and Urbanism I(3)Discover the foundation and evolution of architectural tradition in this survey course, starting with prehistoric developments in Europe and continuing through the medieval period. This course is global in focus, including both Western and non-Western developments. The survey highlights a variety of aspects of the built environment such as architecture, urban settlements and landscapes. Coursework investigates monumental civic architecture, religious structures, as well as domestic buildings, the urban form, and architectural theory.ARCH 1901Special Topics(1-3)Special Topics in Career Explorations. These are special workshops for pre-college students. Title and content may vary by summer term. See the Schedule of
Classes or Summer School website for specific offerings.Course Limit:99ARCH 1940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 1000 level. Departmental approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 2021Architecture Studio(6)Second year studio concentrates on developed architectural form and design methodologies through processes of analysis, synthesis and transformation. Students work on the conceptual frameworks for their designs, with emphasis on issues of environmental context, urban design, and cultural and technological systems and their impact on architectural form. Different approaches to the making of form are investigated, along with principles of organization, such as spatial hierarchy, circulation, structure, and site relationships. Second semester will emphasize the relationship of design to cultural precedents, site conditions, programs, and material tectonics through the study of housing. Second year studios will be fully integrated with digital media classes to ensure that students gain fluency in computer aided design processes, drawing, spatial modeling and digital design techniques.

Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1012or DSGN 1200.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1012or DSGN 1200.ARCH 2022Architecture Studio(6)Second year studio concentrates on developed architectural form and design methodologies through processes of analysis, synthesis and transformation. Students work on the conceptual frameworks for their designs, with emphasis on issues of environmental context, urban design, and cultural and technological systems and their impact on architectural form. Different approaches to the making of form are investigated, along with principles of organization, such as spatial hierarchy, circulation, structure, and site relationships. Second semester will emphasize the relationship of design to cultural precedents, site conditions, programs, and material tectonics through the study of housing. Second year studios will be fully integrated with digital media classes to ensure that students gain fluency in computer aided design processes, drawing, spatial modeling and digital design techniques.
Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2021.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2021.ARCH 2113Topics in Architecture History/Theory(1.5)This is one of four required half-semester courses introducing students to architectural history and theory by exposing them to a broad range of architectural origins, buildings examples and influences. The goal of the architecture history and theory course sequence is to prepare students to become accomplished researchers—well able to connect a useful taxonomy of architectural examples to contemporary issues and ambitions. Each of the courses begins with a contemporary figure in architectural practice and proceeds in a reverse chronology to explore the precedents and linages of thought that have been synthesized in the work of that contemporary practice. Teaching by example, these courses will offer a lesson in how distant antecedents support and continue to inform the discipline today. By exploring both a western and a non-western canon from a broader range of voices and vantage points, students will learn to further contextualize the basic architectural vocabulary acquired in their introductory courses. Corequisite(s):ARCH 2114.Corequisite(s):ARCH 2114.ARCH 2114Topics in Architecture History/Theory(1.5)This is one of four required half-semester courses introducing students to architectural history and theory by exposing them to a broad range of architectural origins, buildings examples and influences. The goal of the architecture history and theory course sequence is to prepare students to become accomplished researchers—well able to connect a useful taxonomy of architectural examples to contemporary issues and ambitions. Each of the courses begins with a contemporary figure in architectural practice and proceeds in a reverse chronology to explore the precedents and linages of thought that have been synthesized in the work of that contemporary practice. Teaching by example, these courses will offer a lesson in how distant antecedents support and continue to inform the discipline today. By exploring both a western and a non-western canon from a broader range of voices and vantage points, students will learn to further contextualize the basic architectural vocabulary acquired in their introductory courses. Corequisite(s):ARCH 2113.Corequisite(s):ARCH 2113.ARCH 2122History and Theory of Architecture and Urbanism II(3)The course covers the period from the Enlightenment through the early-Modern and high-Modern periods. While the course will emphasize the late-eighteenth (Enlightenment) creation of canonical pedagogies and strategies as foundational texts, it will also include nineteenth-century urbanism and landscapes, both of which condition the formation of material culture in the early- and mid-twentieth centuries. The course is written expressly for students of architecture; we will concentrate not only on the identification and formation of urban artifacts, buildings, architects, and movements, but also on the social, political, and historical context surrounding their genesis and development. The course material is presented according to successive themes, thereby facilitating not only an emphasis on the artifacts and their context, but also on the discourse that supports architecture as a discipline. These themes provide insight into the various motivations and ideas, upon which the history of Modern Architecture rests. In presenting the material in this manner, it is hoped that students will understand that history--in particular the history embedded in the material of architecture--indeed resonates through time, becoming relevant and vital to the genesis and formation of current and future architectural discourse.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1121or AHST 3010.ARCH 2211Site Strategies(3)Site Strategies is designed to prepare students of Architecture for site analysis prior to placing architectural projects in urban and non-urban contexts. Architects need to be aware of the complexities of a site in order to place a structure, understand the impacts of that placement, and to positively contribute to mitigating climate change. This class also teaches a few key skills for understanding a site: first, to understand drawing as a mode of inquiry and as a disciplinary tool to dissect the reality; and two, to develop the ‘ecological view’ of the reality.ARCH 2212Materials and Methods(3)This course introduces the basic materials, types, and systems of building construction. After completing the course, students will be able to choose the appropriate construction materials and system for a building project and will be able to develop the preliminary structural design for a building.ARCH 2213Building, Climate, Comfort(4)Creating energy-efficient homes is becoming increasingly crucial for our environment and for the wellbeing of individuals and communities. This course looks at efficiency through the strategic implementation of both passive and active systems. Students will learn about a series of building design strategies including active systems for Heating, Ventilating, and Cooling as well as passive strategies such as thermal insulation, high-performance glazing, outdoor solar shading, the use of thermal mass, and night ventilation passive.Prerequisite(s):PHYS 1050,1210or1310.ARCH 2223Building, Climate, Comfort Lab(0)Corequisite(s):ARCH 2213.Corequisite(s):ARCH 2213.ARCH 2311Digital Media(3)An introductory course to 3D digital media concepts and techniques with a focus on the fundamental aspects of the Computer Aided Design process. Framed by a general introduction to digital media theory, students will gain fluency in a variety of software applications for the purpose of expanding the architectural design process. Specific emphasis is placed on the role of the computer as a tool for analysis, spatial investigation, and representation. Basic 3D modeling software such as AutoCad, Form.z and Rhino, will constitute the majority of course content.ARCH 2322Digital Media Workshop I(1)Each one-credit course in the digital media workshop series provides intermediate and/or advanced instruction in digital media tools and techniques in coordination with its co-required second or third-year architectural design studio course.
Corequisite(s):ARCH 2022.Corequisite(s):ARCH 2022.ARCH 2327Intro to Spatial Painting(3)ARCH 2710The City I(3)ARCH 2720The City II(3)ARCH 2890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 2892Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 2930Special Topics(0-6)Maximum Hours:99ARCH 2940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 2000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 3031Architecture Studio(6)The first semester of third year will introduce students to urbanism and the city, focusing on the larger environmental context for architectural design. The second semester of third year is the culmination of the required studio sequence and is fully integrated with coursework in history/theory, technology, visual/digital media and professional concerns. Architecture 320 provides an opportunity for the student to synthesize the skills and ideas developed through two and a half years of work and apply these to the comprehensive development of a design project. Students will engage in a complex architectural project situated within an urban environment. The studio will include analysis and design at the scale of the neighborhood or the city, as well as thorough and detailed design of a large building with a complex program. Emphasis is placed on a comprehensive process including the thorough analysis of site issues and architectural precedents, detailed design development of the project, and the coordination and integration of structural, environmental and material systems in the design-work. Students will also develop skills in programming, building information modeling and management, digital fabrication methods and the production of complex digital models and working drawings through fully integrated coursework which will act as a support for the design process.

Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2022or DSGN 2200.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2022or DSGN 2200.ARCH 3032Architecture Studio(6)The first semester of third year will introduce students to urbanism and the city, focusing on the larger environmental context for architectural design. The second semester of third year is the culmination of the required studio sequence and is fully integrated with coursework in history/theory, technology, visual/digital media and professional concerns. Architecture 320 provides an opportunity for the student to synthesize the skills and ideas developed through two and a half years of work and apply these to the comprehensive development of a design project. Students will engage in a complex architectural project situated within an urban environment. The studio will include analysis and design at the scale of the neighborhood or the city, as well as thorough and detailed design of a large building with a complex program. Emphasis is placed on a comprehensive process including the thorough analysis of site issues and architectural precedents, detailed design development of the project, and the coordination and integration of structural, environmental and material systems in the design-work. Students will also develop skills in programming, building information modeling and management, digital fabrication methods and the production of complex digital models and working drawings through fully integrated coursework which will act as a support for the design process.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 3031*.*May be taken concurrently.ARCH 3130Architectural Research Methods(3)This course introduces students to various research paradigms to engage and produce architectural scholarship. Architectural Research Methods will include weekly readings and written responses, a literature review of relevant texts, and a proposal for a research topic. Students will develop skills necessary to support their work in research-based Option Studios and other courses with expectations of scholarly outputs.ARCH 3142Contemporary Swiss Architecture(3)This seminar will explore significant achievements in contemporary Swiss architecture focusing on the work of Peter Zumthor, Herzog & de Meuron, and Gion Caminada. By studying a relatively limited number of key buildings and architects, the seminar will engage broader discussions regarding contemporary architectural practice in general. Where helpful or relevant, works of architecture from various global settings and time periods will be referenced.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2113,2114or2122.ARCH 3144Philosophies of Architecture(3)This seminar begins with a consideration of philosophy as a foundation for the development of an architectural theory. After a discussion of some basic concepts and terms we sketch a broad outline of the categories and organization of the discipline of philosophy. We then study the rationalist and empiricist positions in architectural theory, the emergence of Kantian critical philosophy, the shift in emphasis in 20th century philosophy from epistemology to ontology that is characteristic of Existentialism, and the late 20th century attack on traditional epistemology characteristic of poststructuralism. We then discuss the emergence of literary theory as a paradigmatic discipline in the last 30 years as well as the expansion of western philosophy to include aspects of Zen Buddhism, Taoism, and eastern mystical traditions. With this foundation, the course focuses more specifically on theories of architecture and aesthetics and their relationships to various philosophical positions.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1111,1112,2113,2114or1121.ARCH 3150Identity & Agency in Architecture(3)This course confronts the simple fact that the practice of architecture has a substantial diversity deficit among its professionals and argues that this has negative impacts for design of our built environment. Winston Churchill famously said, "We shape our buildings. Thereafter, they shape us." So what is the impact when our built environment is shaped through the lens of only one part of our population? How does the result shape the rest of us? This course delves into the interplay between identity and the built environment in the United States, both in the historical context and today. It focuses on how underrepresented people have and have not had voice and agency in the shaping of the American built environment and explores future potentials for a built environment that is more reflective of, and improved by, a multiplicity of identities. This is a seminar and a service learning course in which we will use both the readings and discussion of a traditional seminar and the outside-of-the-classroom engagement of service learning to understand the paradigm that we are studying and attempt to change the narrative. By bringing architectural studies to 11-13 year-old students who might not otherwise have direct access to them, we will shift the potential of identity and agency in the built environment of tomorrow. At the same time, we will learn about the built environment through the perspectives of our younger co-learners. Together, we will reshape our own experiences of the built environment and how we envision its creators. Twenty hours of service learning working with our partners in architectural studies, fieldtrips, and an exhibit installation is required. Students do not need to be architecture majors to take this course, but they must possess a seriousness of interest and intent to contribute meaningfully to both the academic and service aspects of the course.ARCH 3214Structural Systems(4)This course teaches students about the performance of structural framing systems in buildings. Students gain an understanding of the relationships amongst parameters of structural framing systems and their impact on design decisions. The course covers the effects of gravitational and lateral structural loads on framing members, connections and foundation, investigated through quantitative analysis.Prerequisite(s):PHYS 1050,1210or1310.ARCH 3215Integrated Building Systems(4)Prerequisite(s): (ARCH 2211* or ATCS 3010*) and (ARCH 2212* or ATCS 3020*) and (ARCH 2213* or ATCS 3030*) and (ARCH 3214* or ATCS 4010*).
* May be taken concurrently.Prerequisite(s):(ARCH 2211*or ATCS 3010*) and (ARCH 2212*or ATCS 3020*) and (ARCH 2213*or ATCS 3030*) and (ARCH 3214*or ATCS 4010*).*May be taken concurrently.ARCH 3233Energy Modeling(3)The application of building modeling using computer simulation tools plays an integral role in the design and evaluation of energy efficient and sustainable buildings. Architects use these simulation to understand and assess building performance at various stages of the design process. A basic understanding of energy systems, and the ability to design and manipulate them, will be especially important as we move into a future where climate change has become a reality, and environmental regulations on the built environment will tighten.ARCH 3234Tectonics of Anisotropic Material Properties(3)This seminar focuses on the tectonic characteristics of component assembly through the lens of anisotropic material properties. Our goal is to gain insight into how the visual intention and the material execution are reconciled through the design and construction process, informing the tectonics of the assembly as a whole.ARCH 3239Space Arch/Walking Cities/Fut.(3)ARCH 3312Advanced Digital Media(3)The second course of the digital media sequence covers advance techniques for digital drawing, modeling, and image production. Students will continue to explore techniques for orthographic, axonometric, and perspective projection drawing. Advanced topics will include representation techniques such as texture mapping, rendering (raytracing, global illumination, high dynamic range images, etc.), animation, procedural modeling, and parametric modeling. Software covered in the course will include Rhino, Grasshopper, V Ray, and 3DS Max.
Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2311.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2311.ARCH 3331Digital Media Workshop II(1)Each one-credit course in the digital media workshop series provides intermediate and/or advanced instruction in digital media tools and techniques in coordination with its co-required second or third-year architectural design studio course.
Corequisite(s):ARCH 3031.Corequisite(s):ARCH 3031.ARCH 3332Digital Media Workshop III(1)Each one-credit course in the digital media workshop series provides intermediate and/or advanced instruction in digital media tools and techniques in coordination with its co-required second or third-year design studio course.
Corequisite(s):ARCH 3032.Corequisite(s):ARCH 3032.ARCH 3335Computional Design(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2311.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2311.ARCH 3351Digital Fabrication(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2311or ADGM 3100.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2311or ADGM 3100.ARCH 3360Cinematic Architecture(3)ARCH 3363Theories In Digital Media(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2311or ADGM 3100.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2311or ADGM 3100.ARCH 3511Professional Concerns I(3)ARCH 3530Ethics, Efficacy & Arch(3)ARCH 3620CONTEXT: Dsgn & Existing Bldgs(3)Prerequisite(s): AHST 1121 or 3010.Prerequisite(s):AHST 1121 or 3010.ARCH 3630Housing and the City(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1121or AHST 3010.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1121or AHST 3010.ARCH 3640Contemporary Swiss Arch(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2122or AHST 3020.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2122or AHST 3020.ARCH 3644Philosophies of Architecture(3)This seminar begins with a consideration of philosophy as a foundation for the development of an architectural theory. After a discussion of some basic concepts and terms we sketch a broad outline of the categories and organization of the discipline of philosophy. We then study the rationalist and empiricist positions in architectural theory, the emergence of Kantian critical philosophy, the shift in emphasis in 20th century philosophy from epistemology to ontology that is characteristic of Existentialism, and the late 20th century attack on traditional epistemology characteristic of poststructuralism. We then discuss the emergence of literary theory as a paradigmatic discipline in the last 30 years as well as the expansion of western philosophy to include aspects of Zen Buddhism, Taoism, and eastern mystical traditions. With this foundation, the course focuses more specifically on theories of architecture and aesthetics and their relationships to various philosophical positions.

Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2122or AHST 3020.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2122or AHST 3020.ARCH 3731Urban Geography and New Orleans as a Case Study(4)Same as PreviousARCH 3742Design in Public Interest(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1110or AHST 1110.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1110or AHST 1110.Corequisite(s):ARCH 3890.ARCH 3764NOLA Geography for Architects(3)ARCH 3771Latin Amer. Urban Experience(3)ARCH 3890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Corequisite(s):ARCH 3742.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 3891Service Learning(0-1)Maximum Hours:99ARCH 3940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer Coursework at the 3000 level. Department approval may be required.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 4041Advanced Studio Elective / Research(6)Upon completing ofARCH 3032, Bachelor of Architecture students are encouraged to engage research, and research based design opportunities. Research studios, taught by both fulltime and visiting faculty, offer a range of topics and projects which explore a variety of architectural issues and areas of research. Students choose elective studios that suit their interests, needs and goals, through focused, faculty led research topics. Advanced Studio Electives develop areas of knowledge depth as well as experience within a broader cultural and disciplinary field. Recently, research studios have ranged in focus from urban design and landscape issues to housing, materials, and design-build (through URBANbuild and Small Center). Some research studios include international travel funded by Mintz Global Travel Studio funding. Travel abroad programs (refer to section on International Study) are also available to students at this point in their education. Prerequisite(s):ARCH 3032(BSA students,ARCH 2022is the prerequisite)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2022or3032.ARCH 4042Advanced Studio Elective / Research(6)Upon completing ofARCH 3032, Bachelor of Architecture students are encouraged to engage research, and research based design opportunities. Research studios, taught by both fulltime and visiting faculty, offer a range of topics and projects which explore a variety of architectural issues and areas of research. Students choose elective studios that suit their interests, needs and goals, through focused, faculty led research topics. Advanced Studio Electives develop areas of knowledge depth as well as experience within a broader cultural and disciplinary field. Recently, research studios have ranged in focus from urban design and landscape issues to housing, materials, and design-build (through URBANbuild and Small Center). Some research studios include international travel funded by Mintz Global Travel Studio funding. Travel abroad programs (refer to section on International Study) are also available to students at this point in their education.
Prerequisite(s):ARCH 3032(BSA students,ARCH 2022is the prerequisite)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2022or3032.ARCH 4133Museums: History, Design, Culture(3)This seminar-style course investigates museums as preeminent cultural institutions of the 21st century. It is developed in weekly modules through substantive readings and case studies that range across architectural and programmatic typologies, sites and contexts, functional requirements, and theories and practices of display. The geographic reach of the course is international. Selected readings focus on the institutional development of museums, the roles that museums play in the construction of individual and communal identities, and the contributions that museums make particularly to urban cultural economies. Readings also address current research concerning the development of new museum publics through the application of cutting-edge digital technologies and web-based applications.ARCH 4140Sectional Strategies(3)The seminar explores spatial and social themes that are revealed and explored through the vertical cut of the section. Lectures, readings and student presentations will look at both historic and contemporary projects for buildings, cities and landscapes. Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1110or AHST 1110.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1110or AHST 1110.ARCH 4252Urbanbuild Technology(3)ARCH 4253Advanced Tech Fabrication(3)ARCH 4335Computational Design(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2311or ADGM 3100.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2311or ADGM 3100.ARCH 4345The Architecture of Drawing(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1011, DSGN 1100 orARST 1050.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 1011, DSGN 1100 orARST 1050.ARCH 4347Spatial Painting(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2327.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2327.ARCH 4352Advanced Digital Fabrication(3)ARCH 4512Professional Concerns II(3)This course exams the role BIM [Building Information Modeling] takes in defining and shaping the way we imagine and construct buildings in contemporary architectural thinking and practice. The course is structured around the idea that BIM is not truly a program for modeling: it is a medium for the communication and dissemination of information to different stakeholders in a project – and as such is a tool for practice. The semester will use one BIM software, Autodesk Revit, as a case study, and through and by developing proficiency in this software and questioning its place in the discourse students will be equipped to enter the field of practice with the skills and critical thinking required to be thought leaders.ARCH 4522Ethics in the Built Environment(3)Ethics is fundamentally a system of shared principles, and as such requires active discussion. These discussions can happen at the scale of a profession, an industry association, or an individual firm--but too often we are more comfortable using only the language of business or economics in a business setting, and so avoid ethical or values-based discussions. And yet, any group of professionals is hired both for their skill and for their judgment. This course will evaluate ethical and public policy dilemmas in the built environment, building a fluency with this language in a professional context. We will identify genuine moral dilemmas in current professional practice and connect them to underlying professional values. In doing so, we will consider the effects of decisions nominally made by senior practitioners and principals; but we will also emphasize opportunities for more junior professionals to instigate a discussion of professional ethics in their own firm or professional setting.ARCH 4550Career Development Lab(1)ARCH 4552Urbanbuild Professionalism(3)ARCH 4560Architecture Internship(3)Maximum Hours:99ARCH 4570Architecture CPS Internship(3)ARCH 4890Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hoursCorequisite(s):ARCH 4930.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 4891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 4892Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 4905Teaching Practicum(1-6)Teaching courses give upper-level undergraduate and graduate students an opportunity to work with a faculty advisor to work as a teaching assistant for academic credit. Qualified students must develop a syllabus and schedule with the faculty advisor to be approved by the program directors prior to registration. This course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2ARCH 4910Independent Study(1-6)ARCH 4915Research Practicum(1-6)Teaching courses give upper-level undergraduate and graduate students an opportunity to work with a faculty advisor to work as a research assistant for academic credit. Qualified students must develop a syllabus and schedule with the faculty advisor to be approved by the program directors prior to registration. This course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2ARCH 4920Independent Study Abroad(1-6)ARCH 4930Special Topics(3,4)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 4931Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 4932Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 4933Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 4934Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 4935Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 4936Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 4937Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 4938Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 4939Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.
Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2122or AHST 3020.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 2122or AHST 3020.Course Limit:99ARCH 4940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 4000 level. Departmental approval required.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 4950Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture.Maximum Hours:6ARCH 4990Honors Thesis(3)ARCH 4991Senior Honors Project in Fine Arts(3)Senior Honors Project in Fine ArtsARCH 5000Honors Thesis(4)ARCH 5001Senior Honors Project in Fine Arts(3)Senior Honors Project in Fine ArtsPrerequisite(s):ARCH 4991.ARCH 5051Advanced Studio Elective(6)Advanced level graduate studio design courses, characterized by architectural problems of varying scale and complexity, require solutions that are thorough in their conception, development, and execution. Approximately 4-8 studio sections are offered each semester, each with a unique focus as determined by individual faculty teaching these studios. These various sections offer a range of topics and projects which explore a variety of architectural issues and areas of research. Examples include: aesthetic, cultural, and symbolic issues, housing, community design, urban design, historic preservation, and design/build. Students choose elective studios that suit their interests, needs, and goals, in order to focus their studies while gaining experience within a broader cultural and disciplinary field. This concentration develops areas of expertise beneficial to future professional growth.
Prerequisite(s):ARCH 4041or4042.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 4041or4042.ARCH 5380Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Semester Abroad. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 5390Junior Year Abroad(1-20)Semester Abroad. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 5580Architecture Preceptorship(6)Maximum Hours:12ARCH 5891Service Learning(0-1)Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 5940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 5000 level. Departmental approval required.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 5980Thesis Preparation(3-4)Thesis Research.ARCH 5990Thesis Studio(6)The final degree project is the culmination of the architectural design curriculum and the capstone project for architecture students. Students undertake one of three streams for their final research and design project: Thesis Studio, Research Studio or an Advanced Integrated Studio. Students who elect to do an independent Thesis Studio must fulfill specific academic requirements (see section on policy), have prepared a thesis proposal by the beginning of the fall semester, and have approval for this proposal by the thesis directors. Independent Research Theses may also be undertaken by those students who have a demonstrated record of academic excellence (with a cumulative and design grade point average of 3.6-4.0), and have prepared a research proposal approved in advance both by a faculty sponsor and the thesis directors. Each of the curricular streams for the Master of Architecture Thesis will consist of DSGN 5100: Thesis Research + Analysis and DSGN 5200: Thesis Design Studio.

Prerequisite(s):ARCH 5980.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 5980.ARCH 6011Architecture Studio(6)ARCH 6012Architecture Studio(6)ARCH 6015Architecture Studio(1)This studio is intended for students in the advanced standing M. Arch I track. Working alongside students entering the MArch I regular track, students will
expand on the tools, skills, and concepts acquired in their previous design experience, through digital drawing, 3-D modeling, and making. The goal is to instill students with the ability to navigate the digital and the physical realm fluidly by focusing on efficient digital work-flows and processes. The studio will
be structured through a series of prescribed exercises assisted by assigned readings, slide presentations, and skill instructions. Students will gain the ability to digitally model and extract 2D orthographic drawings as well as 3D print or laser-cut and assemble physical models.ARCH 6021Architecture Studio(6)ARCH 6022Architecture Studio(6)ARCH 6031Architecture Studio(6)Architecture Studio.ARCH 6032Architecture Studio(6)ARCH 6041Advanced Studio Elective(6)Advanced level graduate studio design courses, characterized by architectural problems of varying scale and complexity, require solutions that are thorough in their conception, development, and execution. Approximately 4-8 studio sections are offered each semester, each with a unique focus as determined by individual faculty teaching these studios. These various sections offer a range of topics and projects which explore a variety of architectural issues and areas of research. Examples include: aesthetic, cultural, and symbolic issues, housing, community design, urban design, historic preservation, and design/build. Students choose elective studios that suit their interests, needs, and goals, in order to focus their studies while gaining experience within a broader cultural and disciplinary field. This concentration develops areas of expertise beneficial to future professional growth.ARCH 6042Advanced Studio Elective(6)Advanced level graduate studio design courses, characterized by architectural problems of varying scale and complexity, require solutions that are thorough in their conception, development, and execution. Approximately 4-8 studio sections are offered each semester, each with a unique focus as determined by individual faculty teaching these studios. These various sections offer a range of topics and projects which explore a variety of architectural issues and areas of research. Examples include: aesthetic, cultural, and symbolic issues, housing, community design, urban design, historic preservation, and design/build. Students choose elective studios that suit their interests, needs, and goals, in order to focus their studies while gaining experience within a broader cultural and disciplinary field. This concentration develops areas of expertise beneficial to future professional growth.ARCH 6051Advanced Studio Elective(6)Advanced level graduate studio design courses, characterized by architectural problems of varying scale and complexity, require solutions that are thorough in their conception, development, and execution. Approximately 4-8 studio sections are offered each semester, each with a unique focus as determined by individual faculty teaching these studios. These various sections offer a range of topics and projects which explore a variety of architectural issues and areas of research. Examples include: aesthetic, cultural, and symbolic issues, housing, community design, urban design, historic preservation, and design/build. Students choose elective studios that suit their interests, needs, and goals, in order to focus their studies while gaining experience within a broader cultural and disciplinary field. This concentration develops areas of expertise beneficial to future professional growth.ARCH 6052Advanced Studio Elective(6)Advanced level graduate studio design courses, characterized by architectural problems of varying scale and complexity, require solutions that are thorough in their conception, development, and execution. Approximately 4-8 studio sections are offered each semester, each with a unique focus as determined by individual faculty teaching these studios. These various sections offer a range of topics and projects which explore a variety of architectural issues and areas of research. Examples include: aesthetic, cultural, and symbolic issues, housing, community design, urban design, historic preservation, and design/build. Students choose elective studios that suit their interests, needs, and goals, in order to focus their studies while gaining experience within a broader cultural and disciplinary field. This concentration develops areas of expertise beneficial to future professional growth.ARCH 6110Intro to Architecture(3)ARCH 6111Topics in Architecture History/Theory(1.5)This is one of four required half-semester courses introducing students to architectural history and theory by exposing them to a broad range of architectural origins, buildings examples and influences. The goal of the architecture history and theory course sequence is to prepare students to become accomplished researchers—well able to connect a useful taxonomy of architectural examples to contemporary issues and ambitions. Each of the courses begins with a contemporary figure in architectural practice and proceeds in a reverse chronology to explore the precedents and linages of thought that have been synthesized in the work of that contemporary practice. Teaching by example, these courses will offer a lesson in how distant antecedents support and continue to inform the discipline today. By exploring both a western and a non-western canon from a broader range of voices and vantage points, students will learn to further contextualize the basic architectural vocabulary acquired in their introductory courses. Corequisite(s):ARCH 6112.Corequisite(s):ARCH 6112.ARCH 6112Topics in Architecture History/Theory(1.5)This is one of four required half-semester courses introducing students to architectural history and theory by exposing them to a broad range of architectural origins, buildings examples and influences. The goal of the architecture history and theory course sequence is to prepare students to become accomplished researchers—well able to connect a useful taxonomy of architectural examples to contemporary issues and ambitions. Each of the courses begins with a contemporary figure in architectural practice and proceeds in a reverse chronology to explore the precedents and linages of thought that have been synthesized in the work of that contemporary practice. Teaching by example, these courses will offer a lesson in how distant antecedents support and continue to inform the discipline today. By exploring both a western and a non-western canon from a broader range of voices and vantage points, students will learn to further contextualize the basic architectural vocabulary acquired in their introductory courses. Corequisite(s):ARCH 6111.Corequisite(s):ARCH 6111.ARCH 6113Topics in Architecture History/Theory(1.5)This is one of four required half-semester courses introducing students to architectural history and theory by exposing them to a broad range of architectural origins, buildings examples and influences. The goal of the architecture history and theory course sequence is to prepare students to become accomplished researchers—well able to connect a useful taxonomy of architectural examples to contemporary issues and ambitions. Each of the courses begins with a contemporary figure in architectural practice and proceeds in a reverse chronology to explore the precedents and linages of thought that have been synthesized in the work of that contemporary practice. Teaching by example, these courses will offer a lesson in how distant antecedents support and continue to inform the discipline today. By exploring both a western and a non-western canon from a broader range of voices and vantage points, students will learn to further contextualize the basic architectural vocabulary acquired in their introductory courses. Corequisite(s):ARCH 6114.Corequisite(s):ARCH 6114.ARCH 6114Topics in Architecture History/Theory(1.5)This is one of four required half-semester courses introducing students to architectural history and theory by exposing them to a broad range of architectural origins, buildings examples and influences. The goal of the architecture history and theory course sequence is to prepare students to become accomplished researchers—well able to connect a useful taxonomy of architectural examples to contemporary issues and ambitions. Each of the courses begins with a contemporary figure in architectural practice and proceeds in a reverse chronology to explore the precedents and linages of thought that have been synthesized in the work of that contemporary practice. Teaching by example, these courses will offer a lesson in how distant antecedents support and continue to inform the discipline today. By exploring both a western and a non-western canon from a broader range of voices and vantage points, students will learn to further contextualize the basic architectural vocabulary acquired in their introductory courses. Corequisite(s):ARCH 6113.Corequisite(s):ARCH 6113.ARCH 6121History and Theory of Architecture and Urbanism I(3)Discover the foundation and evolution of architectural tradition in this survey course, starting with prehistoric developments in Europe and continuing through the medieval period. This course is global in focus, including both Western and non-Western developments. The survey highlights a variety of aspects of the built environment such as architecture, urban settlements and landscapes. Coursework investigates monumental civic architecture, religious structures, as well as domestic buildings, the urban form, and architectural theory.ARCH 6122History and Theory of Architecture and Urbanism II(3)The course covers the period from the Enlightenment through the early-Modern and high-Modern periods. While the course will emphasize the late-eighteenth (Enlightenment) creation of canonical pedagogies and strategies as foundational texts, it will also include nineteenth-century urbanism and landscapes, both of which condition the formation of material culture in the early- and mid-twentieth centuries. The course is written expressly for students of architecture; we will concentrate not only on the identification and formation of urban artifacts, buildings, architects, and movements, but also on the social, political, and historical context surrounding their genesis and development. The course material is presented according to successive themes, thereby facilitating not only an emphasis on the artifacts and their context, but also on the discourse that supports architecture as a discipline. These themes provide insight into the various motivations and ideas, upon which the history of Modern Architecture rests. In presenting the material in this manner, it is hoped that students will understand that history--in particular the history embedded in the material of architecture--indeed resonates through time, becoming relevant and vital to the genesis and formation of current and future architectural discourse.ARCH 6130Architectural Research Methods(3)This course introduces students to various research paradigms to engage and produce architectural scholarship. Architectural Research Methods will include
weekly readings and written responses, a literature review of relevant texts, and a proposal for a research topic. Students will develop skills necessary to support their work in research-based Options Studios and other courses with expectations for scholarly outcomes.ARCH 6133Museums: History, Design, Culture(3)This seminar-style course investigates museums as preeminent cultural institutions of the 21st century. It is developed in weekly modules through substantive readings and case studies that range across architectural and programmatic typologies, sites and contexts, functional requirements, and theories and practices of display. The geographic reach of the course is international. Selected readings focus on the institutional development of museums, the roles that museums play in the construction of individual and communal identities, and the contributions that museums make particularly to urban cultural economies. Readings also address current research concerning the development of new museum publics through the application of cutting-edge digital technologies and web-based applications.ARCH 6140Sectional Strategies(3)The seminar explores spatial and social themes that are revealed and explored through the vertical cut of the section. Lectures, readings and student presentations will look at both historic and contemporary projects for buildings, cities and landscapes.ARCH 6142Contemporary Swiss Architecture(3)This seminar will explore significant achievements in contemporary Swiss architecture focusing on the work of Peter Zumthor, Herzog & de Meuron, and Gion Caminada. By studying a relatively limited number of key buildings and architects, the seminar will engage broader discussions regarding contemporary architectural practice in general. Where helpful or relevant, works of architecture from various global settings and time periods will be referenced.ARCH 6144Philosophies of Architecture(3)This seminar begins with a consideration of philosophy as a foundation for the development of an architectural theory. After a discussion of some basic concepts and terms we sketch a broad outline of the categories and organization of the discipline of philosophy. We then study the rationalist and empiricist positions in architectural theory, the emergence of Kantian critical philosophy, the shift in emphasis in 20th century philosophy from epistemology to ontology that is characteristic of Existentialism, and the late 20th century attack on traditional epistemology characteristic of poststructuralism. We then discuss the emergence of literary theory as a paradigmatic discipline in the last 30 years as well as the expansion of western philosophy to include aspects of Zen Buddhism, Taoism, and eastern mystical traditions. With this foundation, the course focuses more specifically on theories of architecture and aesthetics and their relationships to various philosophical positions.ARCH 6150Identity & Agency in Architecture(3)This course confronts the simple fact that the practice of architecture has a substantial diversity deficit among its professionals and argues that this has negative impacts for design of our built environment. Winston Churchill famously said, "We shape our buildings. Thereafter, they shape us." So what is the impact when our built environment is shaped through the lens of only one part of our population? How does the result shape the rest of us? This course delves into the interplay between identity and the built environment in the United States, both in the historical context and today. It focuses on how underrepresented people have and have not had voice and agency in the shaping of the American built environment and explores future potentials for a built environment that is more reflective of, and improved by, a multiplicity of identities. This is a seminar and a service learning course in which we will use both the readings and discussion of a traditional seminar and the outside-of-the-classroom engagement of service learning to understand the paradigm that we are studying and attempt to change the narrative. By bringing architectural studies to 11-13 year-old students who might not otherwise have direct access to them, we will shift the potential of identity and agency in the built environment of tomorrow. At the same time, we will learn about the built environment through the perspectives of our younger co-learners. Together, we will reshape our own experiences of the built environment and how we envision its creators. Twenty hours of service learning working with our partners in architectural studies, fieldtrips, and an exhibit installation is required. Students do not need to be architecture majors to take this course, but they must possess a seriousness of interest and intent to contribute meaningfully to both the academic and service aspects of the course.ARCH 6211Site Strategies(3)Site Strategies is designed to prepare students of Architecture for site analysis prior to placing architectural projects in urban and non-urban contexts. Architects need to be aware of the complexities of a site in order to place a structure, understand the impacts of that placement, and to positively contribute to mitigating climate change. This class also teaches a few key skills for understanding a site: first, to understand drawing as a mode of inquiry and as a disciplinary tool to dissect the reality; and two, to develop the ‘ecological view’ of the reality.ARCH 6212Materials and Methods(3)This course introduces the basic materials, types, and systems of building construction. After completing the course, students will be able to choose the appropriate construction materials and system for a building project and will be able to develop the preliminary structural design for a building.ARCH 6213Building, Climate, Comfort(4)Corequisite(s):ARCH 6223.ARCH 6214Structural Systems(4)This course teaches students about the performance of structural framing systems in buildings. Students gain an understanding of the relationships amongst parameters of structural framing systems and their impact on design decisions. The course covers the effects of gravitational and lateral structural loads on framing members, connections and foundation, investigated through quantitative analysis.ARCH 6215Integrated Building Systems(4)ARCH 6223Building, Climate, Comfort Lab(0)Corequisite(s):ARCH 6213.Corequisite(s):ARCH 6213.ARCH 6233Energy Modeling(3)The application of building modeling using computer simulation tools plays an integral role in the design and evaluation of energy efficient and sustainable buildings.  Architects use these simulation to understand and assess building performance at various stages of the design process. A basic understanding of energy systems, and the ability to design and manipulate them, will be especially important as we move into a future where climate change has become a reality, and environmental regulations on the built environment will tighten.ARCH 6234Tectonics of Anisotropic Material Properties(3)This seminar focuses on the tectonic characteristics of component assembly through the lens of anisotropic material properties. Our goal is to gain insight into how the visual intention and the material execution are reconciled through the design and construction process, informing the tectonics of the assembly as a whole.Course Limit:2ARCH 6239Space Arch/Walking Cities/Fut.(3)ARCH 6252Urbanbuild Technology(3)ARCH 6253Advanced Tech Fabrication(3)ARCH 6311Digital Media(3)ARCH 6312Advanced Digital Media(3)The second course of the digital media sequence covers advance techniques for digital drawing, modeling, and image production. Students will continue
to explore techniques for orthographic, axonometric, and perspective projection drawing. Advanced topics will include representation techniques such as texture mapping, rendering (raytracing, global illumination, high dynamic range images, etc.), animation, procedural modeling, and parametric modeling. Software covered in the course will include Rhino, Grasshopper, V-Ray, and 3DS Max.ARCH 6322Digital Media Workshop I(1)Each one-credit course in the digital media workshop series provides intermediate and/or advanced instruction in digital media tools and techniques in coordination with its co-required second or third-year architectural design studio course.
Corequisite(s):ARCH 6022.Corequisite(s):ARCH 6022.ARCH 6327Intro to Spatial Painting(3)ARCH 6331Digital Media Workshop II(1)Each one-credit course in the digital media workshop series provides intermediate and/or advanced instruction in digital media tools and techniques in coordination with its co-required second or third-year architectural design studio course.
Corequisite(s):ARCH 6031.Corequisite(s):ARCH 6031.ARCH 6332Digital Media Workshop III(1)Each one-credit course in the digital media workshop series provides intermediate and/or advanced instruction in digital media tools and techniques in coordination with its co-required second or third-year design studio course.
Corequisite(s):ARCH 6032.Corequisite(s):ARCH 6032.ARCH 6335Computational Design(3)ARCH 6341Drawing and Analysis(3)ARCH 6345The Architecture of Drawing(3)ARCH 6347Spatial Painting(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 6327.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 6327.ARCH 6351Digital Fabrication(3)ARCH 6352Advanced Digital Fabrication(3)ARCH 6360Cinematic Architecture(3)ARCH 6363Theories In Digital Media(3)ARCH 6511Professional Concerns I(3)ARCH 6512Professional Concerns II(3)ARCH 6522Ethics in the Built Environment(3)Ethics is fundamentally a system of shared principles, and as such requires active discussion. These discussions can happen at the scale of a profession, an industry association, or an individual firm--but too often we are more comfortable using only the language of business or economics in a business setting, and so avoid ethical or values-based discussions. And yet, any group of professionals is hired both for their skill and for their judgment. This course will evaluate ethical and public policy dilemmas in the built environment, building a fluency with this language in a professional context. We will identify genuine moral dilemmas in current professional practice and connect them to underlying professional values. In doing so, we will consider the effects of decisions nominally made by senior practitioners and principals; but we will also emphasize opportunities for more junior professionals to instigate a discussion of professional ethics in their own firm or professional setting.ARCH 6530Ethics, Efficacy & Arch(3)ARCH 6550Career Development Lab(1)ARCH 6552Urbanbuild Professionalism(3)ARCH 6560Architecture Internship(3)ARCH 6580Architecture Preceptorship(6)Maximum Hours:12ARCH 6620CONTEXT: Dsgn & Existing Bldgs(3)ARCH 6630Housing and the City(3)Prerequisite(s):ARCH 6121or AHST 6610.Prerequisite(s):ARCH 6121or AHST 6610.ARCH 6640Contemporary Swiss Arch(3)ARCH 6731Urban Geograph & NO Case Study(3)ARCH 6742Design in Public Interest(3)ARCH 6764NOLA Geography for Architects(3)ARCH 6771Urban Planning in Latin America(3)This seminar examines a select number of Latin American metropolitan centers that have been unique symbols of Latin America’s urbanity. They include Tenochtitlan/Mexico City, Cuzco, Potosí, Havana, Lima, Quito, Bogotá, Ouro Preto, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, and São Paulo. Through reading and discussing a curated selection of critical, historical essays, we study the many distinct ways in which scholars have analyzed and characterized the urban development of these cities. We emphasize the singular historical conditions that created their distinctive urban settings, and we focus on the form and meaning of their built environments as evidenced in buildings and urban landscapes and their representations in maps, prints, paintings, literary descriptions, and photographs, as well as in data drawn from a broad range of social, economic, and institutional sources. One key goal of the course is to demonstrate the critical role that visual and other expressive representations play in shaping our assessments of the qualities of life that cities offer.ARCH 6905Teaching Practicum(1-6)Teaching courses give upper-level undergraduate and graduate students an opportunity to work with a faculty advisor to work as a teaching assistant for
academic credit. Qualified students must develop a syllabus and schedule with the faculty advisor to be approved by the program directors prior to registration. This course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2ARCH 6910Independent Study(1-6)ARCH 6915Research Practicum(1-6)Teaching courses give upper-level undergraduate and graduate students an opportunity to work with a faculty advisor to work as a research assistant for
academic credit. Qualified students must develop a syllabus and schedule with the faculty advisor to be approved by the program directors prior to registration. This course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2ARCH 6920Independent Study Abroad(1-6)ARCH 6925Independent Thesis Research(3)Students will conduct supervised research in support of their project in the Thesis Studio course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 6930Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 6931Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 6932Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 6933Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 6934Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 6935Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture.  Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 6936Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 6937Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 6938Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 6939Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99ARCH 6940Transfer Coursework(0-20)Transfer coursework at the 6000 level. Departmental approval required.Maximum Hours:99ARCH 6950Special Topics(3)Special Topics in Architecture. Course may be repeated 2 times for credit.Course Limit:2ARCH 6980Thesis Research(3)Thesis Research.ARCH 6990Thesis Studio(6)The final degree project is the culmination of the architectural design curriculum and the capstone project for architecture students. Students undertake one of three streams for their final research and design project: Thesis Studio, Research Studio or an Advanced Integrated Studio. Students who elect to do an independent Thesis Studio must fulfill specific academic requirements (see section on policy), have prepared a thesis proposal by the beginning of the fall semester, and have approval for this proposal by the thesis directors. Independent Research Theses may also be undertaken by those students who have a demonstrated record of academic excellence (with a cumulative and design grade point average of 3.6-4.0), and have prepared a research proposal approved in advance both by a faculty sponsor and the thesis directors. Each of the curricular streams for the Master of Architecture Thesis will consist of DSGN 5100: Thesis Research + Analysis and DSGN 5200: Thesis Design Studio.