Bioethics and Medical Humanities, MS Overview Requirements The Master of Science in Bioethics and Medical Humanities is a non-thesis, capstone-required program within Biomedical Sciences which can be completed in either a one- or a two-year course of study. As healthcare becomes increasingly complex with both technological advances as well as social decisions that must be faced, this master’s degree program will assist any learner who wishes to pursue healthcare ethics and humanities in their future. This is a 33-credit-hour program consisting of seven required core courses and four electives. This program accommodates Dual Degree MD-MS students (see below) and those students interested in pursuing the stand-alone MS degree. It is well-suited for both post-baccalaureate students progressing toward a terminal degree (e.g., an MD, JD, etc.) and mid-career professionals who wish to expand their potential in medical ethics and humanities. Students in professional schools wishing to take an MS in a gap year may complete the program in its one-year format. All courses in our program may be attended in-person or by live synchronous teleconferencing, allowing participation from virtually anywhere. Students pursue either the Bioethics Track or Medical Humanities Track to center their efforts, but the program is unique in providing the student both a bioethics and a medical humanities education through our interdisciplinary faculty brought together in the Program in Medical Ethics and Human Values. Core program faculty staffing the core courses are drawn from Philosophy, English, Medicine, Humanities and Clinical Ethics and boast a distinguished publication record in Bioethics and Medical Humanities. This MS degree can be also earned by incoming students at the Tulane School of Medicine as a Dual Degree (MD-MS) program, completed within the same 4 years of medical school. See details at the link below. MD-MS Dual Degree Program Course List Course ID Title Credits Core Courses BEMH 6002 Foundations in Bioethics 3 BEMH 6009 Current Controversies in Bioethics 3 BEMH 6003 Medical Humanities 3 BEMH 6020 Capstone 3 Plus, One of The Two Tracks Below Course List Course ID Title Credits BIOETHICS TRACK BEMH 6007 Ethical Thoery 3 BEMH 6010 Research Ethics 3 BEMH 6011 Clinical Ethics 3 Course List Course ID Title Credits MEDICAL HUMANITIES TRACK BEMH 6005 Studies in Bioethics through Film 3 or BEMH 6012 The End of Life in Film & Lit. BEMH 6008 History of Medicine 3

Course List Course ID Title Credits Core Courses BEMH 6002 Foundations in Bioethics 3 BEMH 6009 Current Controversies in Bioethics 3 BEMH 6003 Medical Humanities 3 BEMH 6020 Capstone 3 Plus, One of The Two Tracks Below Course List Course ID Title Credits BIOETHICS TRACK BEMH 6007 Ethical Thoery 3 BEMH 6010 Research Ethics 3 BEMH 6011 Clinical Ethics 3 Course List Course ID Title Credits MEDICAL HUMANITIES TRACK BEMH 6005 Studies in Bioethics through Film 3 or BEMH 6012 The End of Life in Film & Lit. BEMH 6008 History of Medicine 3