Biomedical Engineering, MS Overview Requirements A non-thesis Master of Science degree (MS) is offered by the Graduate Division of the School of Science and Engineering upon the completion of 30 semester hours of approved graduate course work. This coursework must satisfy the distribution requirement (see below). Students receiving aid in the form of a teaching assistantship or a research assistantship are generally not eligible for a Master’s degree as their terminal degree. Doctoral students that have completed 30 semester hours of approved graduate credit and who have successfully defended their research prospectus may then petition the Department for a non-thesis MS degree. In order to prepare our students for careers in biomedical engineering, which is a rapidly evolving interdisciplinary field, we require all graduate students to complete a distribution of classes. These are: Anatomy and Physiology BMEN 6030 Anatomy & Physio for Engr (3 c.h.) / BMEN 6035 Anat & Phys for Engr Lab (1 c.h.) BMEN 6070 Quant Physio Lec (3 c.h.) / BMEN 6075 Quant. Physiology Lab (1 c.h.) 2.. Biomedical Engineering Domains One BMEN 6xxx level course in three of the following four domains:  Biomedical Design, Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering, Biomechanics and Biotransport, Biosignals and Biosystems.  One of these three courses may be cross-registered with a BMEN 3xxx course. c. Mathematics One course in advanced mathematics ( e.g. , various 6000-level MATH courses)

In order to prepare our students for careers in biomedical engineering, which is a rapidly evolving interdisciplinary field, we require all graduate students to complete a distribution of classes. These are: Anatomy and Physiology BMEN 6030 Anatomy & Physio for Engr (3 c.h.) / BMEN 6035 Anat & Phys for Engr Lab (1 c.h.) BMEN 6070 Quant Physio Lec (3 c.h.) / BMEN 6075 Quant. Physiology Lab (1 c.h.) 2.. Biomedical Engineering Domains One BMEN 6xxx level course in three of the following four domains:  Biomedical Design, Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering, Biomechanics and Biotransport, Biosignals and Biosystems.  One of these three courses may be cross-registered with a BMEN 3xxx course. c. Mathematics One course in advanced mathematics ( e.g. , various 6000-level MATH courses)