Civil Engineering-Water Resources and Environmental Minor Overview Requirements CIM Program Description The Minor in Civil Engineering -Water Resources and Environmental is available to students pursuing any undergraduate major in the School of Science and Engineering or in other Tulane schools.  In particular, students majoring in another engineering discipline may find the RCSE minor attractive as an additional skill set for the job market. Students with a major in the physical or environmental sciences might have already covered the pre- or co-requisites for the RCSE minor, making it a relatively easy addition to their expertise while matriculating at Tulane. Students majoring in the environmental sciences (e.g., EEB or EES) could strengthen their undergraduate training in water-related topics. Outside of SSE, any student interested in a career linked to environmental planning, climate change adaptations, the resilience of human and natural systems, and water utilization could benefit from this training. This umbrella includes fields as diverse as law, business, public health, and social sciences. We foresee particular links for students in the (1) Environmental Studies major (School of Liberal Arts), where strengthening their science and engineering background in the water sector would be advantageous in many career tracks, and (2) in the School of Architecture, where a program in landscape architecture and design is under development. The Minor in Civil Engineering - Water Resources and Engineering requires 18 credit hours from the following six courses: Course List Course ID Title Credits ENGP 1410 Statics 3 RCSE 3010 Water Resources Engineering - I (Or) 3 or BMEN 3440 Biofluid Mechanics or CENG 2320 Transport Phenomena I RCSE 4010 Water Resources Engineering II 3 RCSE 4030 Water Resources Engineering III 3 RCSE 6800 Intro to River Science & Eng (offered every Spring) 3 RCSE 6802 Introduction to Coastal Science and Engineering (offered Fall semester) 3 Total Credit Hours 18 In summary, to complete the RCSE minor, students using RCSE3010 or BMEN 2320 for the fluid mechanics requirement will also need to successfully complete one semester each of calculus and physics. If using CENG23230, they will need three semesters of math (including 2 of calculus), one of physics, one of chemistry, and an additional CENG course (Thermodynamics). Likely the latter track to the RCSE minor will primarily be followed by students seeking a major in chemical engineering. As further requirements for the RCSE minor, students must maintain a 2.00 GPA in all minor courses. No courses can count toward a second minor in SSE or other Tulane schools.  For more information, please contact the department chair at meadallison@tulane.edu .

The Minor in Civil Engineering - Water Resources and Engineering requires 18 credit hours from the following six courses: Course List Course ID Title Credits ENGP 1410 Statics 3 RCSE 3010 Water Resources Engineering - I (Or) 3 or BMEN 3440 Biofluid Mechanics or CENG 2320 Transport Phenomena I RCSE 4010 Water Resources Engineering II 3 RCSE 4030 Water Resources Engineering III 3 RCSE 6800 Intro to River Science & Eng (offered every Spring) 3 RCSE 6802 Introduction to Coastal Science and Engineering (offered Fall semester) 3 Total Credit Hours 18 In summary, to complete the RCSE minor, students using RCSE3010 or BMEN 2320 for the fluid mechanics requirement will also need to successfully complete one semester each of calculus and physics. If using CENG23230, they will need three semesters of math (including 2 of calculus), one of physics, one of chemistry, and an additional CENG course (Thermodynamics). Likely the latter track to the RCSE minor will primarily be followed by students seeking a major in chemical engineering. As further requirements for the RCSE minor, students must maintain a 2.00 GPA in all minor courses. No courses can count toward a second minor in SSE or other Tulane schools.  For more information, please contact the department chair at meadallison@tulane.edu .