Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, PhD Overview Requirements The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (EEB) offers a Doctor of Philosophy degree. The curriculum is designed to encourage maximum student choice and independence while maintaining a close student-advisor relationship. Students are encouraged to adopt a broad, integrative view of science and biological research. Course offerings cover such areas as animal and plant physiology, plant ecology, plant-animal interactions, population biology, structural and evolutionary biology, systematic biology, environmental toxicology, marine/estuarine ecology, and the biology of diverse groups of plants and animals. Students participate in an active departmental seminar program and informal research discussion groups. Students accepted into the doctoral program are informally examined in Genetics, General Ecology, and Evolutionary Biology upon entry; based upon the results of that examination, the department makes recommendations as to the student's future course of study. By the end of the second year all formal course work is usually completed.The doctoral degree normally requires four or five years of study leading to the production of a publishable dissertation. In addition to university-wide requirements for the PhD, the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology has the following requirements for its PhD students. Plan of Study Grid Year 1 Credit Hours EBIO 6810 EEB Journal Review Two sections required 2 EBIO 6777 Foundations in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology 3 EBIO 6910 Independent Study 1-4 EBIO 6920 Independent Study 1-4 Additional approval Graduate Electives 41 Credit Hours 48-54 Total Credit Hours 48-54 Annual Report and Progress All graduate students who have been enrolled in the EEB Department for at least one semester must submit an annual report that briefly describes progress made during the previous calendar year (see Graduate Student Annual Report Form). Copies of this report must be submitted by January 25th to the student's thesis or dissertation advisor and to the departmental secretary for faculty review and placement in the student's departmental file. The Graduate Studies Committee and departmental faculty will review the annual reports to determine whether each student's progress has been satisfactory. Continued unsatisfactory progress is sufficient cause to revoke a teaching assistantship or terminate a student from the graduate program. Dissertation Research Following admission to candidacy, dissertation research hours are required (minimum of 3 hours per term, including summers) on a continuous basis until the dissertation committee certifies the student to graduate or until the department residency limit for PhD students is exhausted. Journal Submission All Ph.D. candidates must submit at least one chapter of dissertation for publication prior to final committee approval of the students dissertation defense.   A public defense of the presentation must be made in either a regular fall or spring term by the candidate prior to the final defense committee meeting. Teaching Requirement All Ph.D. students must complete at least one semester of department teaching experience.

In addition to university-wide requirements for the PhD, the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology has the following requirements for its PhD students. Plan of Study Grid Year 1 Credit Hours EBIO 6810 EEB Journal Review Two sections required 2 EBIO 6777 Foundations in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology 3 EBIO 6910 Independent Study 1-4 EBIO 6920 Independent Study 1-4 Additional approval Graduate Electives 41 Credit Hours 48-54 Total Credit Hours 48-54 Annual Report and Progress All graduate students who have been enrolled in the EEB Department for at least one semester must submit an annual report that briefly describes progress made during the previous calendar year (see Graduate Student Annual Report Form). Copies of this report must be submitted by January 25th to the student's thesis or dissertation advisor and to the departmental secretary for faculty review and placement in the student's departmental file. The Graduate Studies Committee and departmental faculty will review the annual reports to determine whether each student's progress has been satisfactory. Continued unsatisfactory progress is sufficient cause to revoke a teaching assistantship or terminate a student from the graduate program. Dissertation Research Following admission to candidacy, dissertation research hours are required (minimum of 3 hours per term, including summers) on a continuous basis until the dissertation committee certifies the student to graduate or until the department residency limit for PhD students is exhausted. Journal Submission All Ph.D. candidates must submit at least one chapter of dissertation for publication prior to final committee approval of the students dissertation defense.   A public defense of the presentation must be made in either a regular fall or spring term by the candidate prior to the final defense committee meeting. Teaching Requirement All Ph.D. students must complete at least one semester of department teaching experience.