Elementary Education, MAT Overview Requirements The Master of Arts in Teaching with a specialization in Elementary Education offers courses and a path to Louisiana teacher certification that will equip teacher candidates with the necessary credentials, research skills, and instructional practices to successfully support all learners in the elementary grades. To earn this degree, students are required to complete 36 hours of coursework in Elementary Education. Applied learning is also an integral part of the coordinate major.  By the time the final residency experience begins, students will have spent 135+ hours in diverse public and private school classrooms. MAT in Elementary Education - Requirements The Master of Arts in Teaching in Elementary consists of twelve three-credit courses, including the required year-long residency course. Course List Course ID Title Credits EDUC 6000 Historical and Philosophical Foundations of Education 3 EDUC 6060 Methods of Educational Research 3 EDUC 6310 Teaching Social Studies in the Elementary Education Classroom 3 EDUC 6320 Teaching Science in the Elementary Education Classroom 3 EDUC 6330 Math in the Elementary Education Classroom 3 EDUC 6810 The Craft of Teaching 3 EDUC 6822 Foundations of Elementary Literacy 3 EDUC 6832 Elementary Education Reading Methods 3 EDUC 6836 Elementary Reading Instruction for All Learners 3 EDUC 6870 Childhood Development 3 Choose EDUC 6894 Residency I (Student) - Elementary Education 3 OR EDUC 6896 Residency II (Practitioner) - Elementary Education EDUC 6895 Residency II (Student) - Elementary Education Total Credit Hours 33 Additional Requirements for Certification Students in the MAT in Elementary Education must maintain a 3.0 GPA in education courses.  To enroll in and progress through the Residency program for certification, students must: Successfully complete and meet program requirements and competencies Successfully pass the Gateway to Residency Complete the Praxis II (Content Area) prior to residency Complete the Praxis II (Principles of Learning and Teaching) prior to or during residency Successfully pass the Gateway to Teaching The student teaching/ practitioner residency is an intensive teaching experiential-learning pathway taken over the course of two consecutive semesters. During this time, the student completes a carefully designed and fully supported yearlong teacher residency at a school. The student is supervised over the course of their clinical experience by a team comprised of the school-based mentor teacher, the residency school site principal or their designee, as well as a Tulane faculty supervisor. Note that successful completion of a two-semester residency is a requirement of any individual seeking licensure in the State of Louisiana.

MAT in Elementary Education - Requirements The Master of Arts in Teaching in Elementary consists of twelve three-credit courses, including the required year-long residency course. Course List Course ID Title Credits EDUC 6000 Historical and Philosophical Foundations of Education 3 EDUC 6060 Methods of Educational Research 3 EDUC 6310 Teaching Social Studies in the Elementary Education Classroom 3 EDUC 6320 Teaching Science in the Elementary Education Classroom 3 EDUC 6330 Math in the Elementary Education Classroom 3 EDUC 6810 The Craft of Teaching 3 EDUC 6822 Foundations of Elementary Literacy 3 EDUC 6832 Elementary Education Reading Methods 3 EDUC 6836 Elementary Reading Instruction for All Learners 3 EDUC 6870 Childhood Development 3 Choose EDUC 6894 Residency I (Student) - Elementary Education 3 OR EDUC 6896 Residency II (Practitioner) - Elementary Education EDUC 6895 Residency II (Student) - Elementary Education Total Credit Hours 33 Additional Requirements for Certification Students in the MAT in Elementary Education must maintain a 3.0 GPA in education courses.  To enroll in and progress through the Residency program for certification, students must: Successfully complete and meet program requirements and competencies Successfully pass the Gateway to Residency Complete the Praxis II (Content Area) prior to residency Complete the Praxis II (Principles of Learning and Teaching) prior to or during residency Successfully pass the Gateway to Teaching The student teaching/ practitioner residency is an intensive teaching experiential-learning pathway taken over the course of two consecutive semesters. During this time, the student completes a carefully designed and fully supported yearlong teacher residency at a school. The student is supervised over the course of their clinical experience by a team comprised of the school-based mentor teacher, the residency school site principal or their designee, as well as a Tulane faculty supervisor. Note that successful completion of a two-semester residency is a requirement of any individual seeking licensure in the State of Louisiana.