Elementary Education (Grades 1-5) Coordinate Major Overview Requirements The Elementary Education (grades 1-5) Coordinate Major is a 33-credit major that offers students coursework and a path to become an elementary (grades 1-5) teacher in the State of Louisiana. Successful completion of all coursework and a two-semester residency is a requirement of any individual seeking teaching certification in the State of Louisiana. Students who choose not to pursue teacher certification may complete an applied research project in lieu of the residency. Students must meet the requirements for the primary major while completing the required Elementary Education requirements. Students work with an advisor in the department of their primary major and an advisor in the PreK12- Education program to ensure all requirements in both programs are met. The elementary education (grades 1-5) coordinate major requires 33 credit hours.  Students who successfully complete all requirements below, including the clinical residency, become eligible for the elementary education (grades 1-5) teaching license in the State of Louisiana. Please see the primary major’s department page for major requirements. Course List Course ID Title Credits EDLA 2000 Education In A Diverse Society 3 EDUC 3410 The Craft of Teaching 3 EDUC 3422 Foundations of Elementary Literacy 3 PSYC 3210 Child Psychology 3 EDUC 3803 Elementary Education Reading Methods 3 EDUC 3805 Elementary Reading Instruction for All Learners 3 EDUC 4310 Teaching Social Studies in the Elementary Education 3 EDUC 4320 Teaching Science in the Elementary Classroom 3 EDUC 4330 Teaching Math in Elementary Classrooms 3 CHOOSE EDUC 5310 Residency I - EE Student Residency * 3 EDUC 5320 Residency II - EE Student Residency * 3 OR EDUC 5330 Residency I - EE Practitioner Residency 3 EDUC 5340 Residency II - EE Practitioner Residency 3 OR EDUC 5271 Applied Research Project I * 3 EDUC 5281 Applied Research Project II * 3 * Students choose the certification or non-certification pathway by taking 6 credits of either Residency or the Applied Research Project. Additional Requirements for Certification Students in the Elementary Education Coordinate Major must maintain a 3.0 GPA in education courses. To enroll in and progress through the Residency program for certification, students must: Successfully complete and meet program requirements and competencies Successfully pass the Gateway to Residency Complete the Praxis II (Content Area) prior to residency Complete the Praxis II (Principles of Learning and Teaching) prior to or during residency Successfully pass the Gateway to Teaching The student teaching/ practitioner residency is an intensive teaching experiential-learning pathway taken over the course of two consecutive semesters. During this time, the student completes a carefully designed and fully supported yearlong teacher residency at a school. The student is supervised over the course of their clinical experience by a team comprised of the school-based mentor teacher, the residency school site principal or their designee, as well as a Tulane faculty supervisor. Note that successful completion of a two-semester residency is a requirement of any individual seeking licensure in the State of Louisiana.

The elementary education (grades 1-5) coordinate major requires 33 credit hours.  Students who successfully complete all requirements below, including the clinical residency, become eligible for the elementary education (grades 1-5) teaching license in the State of Louisiana. Please see the primary major’s department page for major requirements. Course List Course ID Title Credits EDLA 2000 Education In A Diverse Society 3 EDUC 3410 The Craft of Teaching 3 EDUC 3422 Foundations of Elementary Literacy 3 PSYC 3210 Child Psychology 3 EDUC 3803 Elementary Education Reading Methods 3 EDUC 3805 Elementary Reading Instruction for All Learners 3 EDUC 4310 Teaching Social Studies in the Elementary Education 3 EDUC 4320 Teaching Science in the Elementary Classroom 3 EDUC 4330 Teaching Math in Elementary Classrooms 3 CHOOSE EDUC 5310 Residency I - EE Student Residency * 3 EDUC 5320 Residency II - EE Student Residency * 3 OR EDUC 5330 Residency I - EE Practitioner Residency 3 EDUC 5340 Residency II - EE Practitioner Residency 3 OR EDUC 5271 Applied Research Project I * 3 EDUC 5281 Applied Research Project II * 3 * Students choose the certification or non-certification pathway by taking 6 credits of either Residency or the Applied Research Project. Additional Requirements for Certification Students in the Elementary Education Coordinate Major must maintain a 3.0 GPA in education courses. To enroll in and progress through the Residency program for certification, students must: Successfully complete and meet program requirements and competencies Successfully pass the Gateway to Residency Complete the Praxis II (Content Area) prior to residency Complete the Praxis II (Principles of Learning and Teaching) prior to or during residency Successfully pass the Gateway to Teaching The student teaching/ practitioner residency is an intensive teaching experiential-learning pathway taken over the course of two consecutive semesters. During this time, the student completes a carefully designed and fully supported yearlong teacher residency at a school. The student is supervised over the course of their clinical experience by a team comprised of the school-based mentor teacher, the residency school site principal or their designee, as well as a Tulane faculty supervisor. Note that successful completion of a two-semester residency is a requirement of any individual seeking licensure in the State of Louisiana.