Emergency Management, Master of Professional Studies Overview Requirements The MPS in Emergency Management degree from the Tulane School of Professional Advancement teaches students the skills and knowledge needed to play a leading role in protecting communities from both natural and human-created hazards and disasters, including those stemming from climate change, as well as responding to ongoing terrorist threats.  Students gain the knowledge and the practical skills that are required in the ever-changing threat environment, both domestically and abroad. The School of Professional Advancement awards the MPS in Emergency Management degree following the successful completion of 11 graduate courses comprised of five core courses, five electives, and one capstone course. No thesis is required. The MPS in Emergency Management is designed to be tailored to the student's interests and needs. The degree is designed with five core courses, a capstone, and five electives. With the five electives, students may opt to pursue a concentration or graduate certificate. Course List Course ID Title Credits Five Required Courses: ESSC 6001 Introduction to Emergency Management 3 ESSC 6007 Health and Medical Issues in Emergency Management 3 ESSC 6009 Emergency Planning 3 ESSC 6010 Disaster Communications 3 ESSC 6011 Emergency Management Administration 3 One Required Capstone: ESSC 7900 Capstone 3 Five Elective Courses ESSC Courses outside of the required five 15 Total Credit Hours 33

The MPS in Emergency Management is designed to be tailored to the student's interests and needs. The degree is designed with five core courses, a capstone, and five electives. With the five electives, students may opt to pursue a concentration or graduate certificate. Course List Course ID Title Credits Five Required Courses: ESSC 6001 Introduction to Emergency Management 3 ESSC 6007 Health and Medical Issues in Emergency Management 3 ESSC 6009 Emergency Planning 3 ESSC 6010 Disaster Communications 3 ESSC 6011 Emergency Management Administration 3 One Required Capstone: ESSC 7900 Capstone 3 Five Elective Courses ESSC Courses outside of the required five 15 Total Credit Hours 33