HACR 1010Elementary Haitian Creole I(4)Designed for students with little or no knowledge of Haitian Creole, this class introduces students to the language and the culture of the creole speech community of the francophone Caribbean region, with emphasis on the Haitian speech community.  Students will acquire competencies in Haitian Creole that prepare them for more advanced studies in Haitian language and culture.  The course emphasizes the development of multiple language skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing, as well as interacting).HACR 1020Elementary Haitian Creole II(4)This class is intended for students who have takenHACR 1010(Elementary Haitian Creole I) or who have already acquired competencies in Haitian Creole (e.g. high school, junior college, or exposure to Creole at home or abroad).  Students will be exposed to more complex linguistic forms and longer texts.  They will develop skills to participate in conversation related to real events in Haiti, and they will improve their ability to work on longer writing assignments.  Communicative contexts and grammatical guides are introduced in class through a variety of activities, and acquisition is reinforced by interactive use of new structures and vocabulary.
Prerequisite(s):HACR 1010.Prerequisite(s):HACR 1010.HACR 2030Intermediate Haitian Creole(4)This class is designed for students who have already taken two semesters of Haitian Creole or who have been exposed to the language.  The main objective is to develop ease, fluidity, and efficiency in oral and written expression.  Emphasis is put on reading, writing, listening, speaking, and interacting.  The class will provide a broad introduction to Haitian culture and literature through the study of excerpts from novels, poems, and songs.  We will review and deepen selected grammatical structures in close coordination with topics and activities taught in class.Prerequisite(s):HACR 1020.HACR 2810Special Projects(3)This course will provide students with a broader knowledge of Haitian language and culture. Emphasis will be placed on research, essays, and discussion.HACR 2820Special Projects(3)This course will provide students with a broader knowledge of Haitian language and culture. Emphasis will be placed on research, essays, and discussion.