HMLS 1940Transfer Credit(1-20)Transfer credit. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99HMLS 2750Homeland Security Challenge(3)The evolution of homeland security as a concept, and a legal framework, a redirection of national policies and priorities is described. The political, economic, and practical issues of implementation are examined. An overview of the history of the terrorist threat and U.S. responses and an introduction to fundamental policy legislation and documents, such as national security strategies, homeland security decision directives, the National Response Plan, and National Incident Management System is provided. The Department of Homeland Security model of planning, protecting, responding, and recovering from a natural disaster and terrorist attacks is described.HMLS 2940Transfer Credit(4)Transfer credit. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99HMLS 2950Basic EMT Training(3)The Emergency Medical Technician course prepares the student to able to render care for patients of all ages with a variety of medical conditions and traumatic injuries. Students do not need a background of prehospital experience for this course. Topics that are covered in this course include patient assessment, medical and trauma-specific emergencies, mass casualty response, basic anatomy and physiology of the body, and communication skills. After completion of this course, the student will be prepared to sit for the national certification exam.HMLS 3150Health and Medical Issues(3)A study of the important health and medical management issues involved in crises and emergencies presented for the non-medical emergency manager. The wide range of medical and health issues inherent to crisis including biological, radiological, nuclear events and emergencies are described. Methods for integrating medical, public health, and psychological processes into emergency management programs are discussed.HMLS 3200Domestic & Intl Terrorism(3)This course introduces participants to various aspects of domestic and international terrorist organizations. The student will be introduced to basic principles of terrorist investigations, international and domestic security threats, and the goals, motivational factors, targets, and tactics of terrorist organizations. The student will learn techniques for evaluating an organization's vulnerability to attacks that involve chemical, biological, explosive, radioactive weapons or sabotage. Students will learn the current models, roles, and responsibilities of local, state, and federal agencies in counter-terrorism investigations.HMLS 3250Emergency Management(3)This course will examine core elements of emergency management in the context of the science, law, medicine, and economics that confront 21st Century leaders in business and government. Case studies, including that of Hurricane Katrina, will serve as the focus for readings, class discussion and policy research to improve this vital function of government.  Key consideration will be given to asymmetrical problems presented to emergency managers, the established authorities and programs, their effectiveness and how to improve them.HMLS 3500Intellignce Rsrch &Anlys(3)This course is designed to give students an understanding of the history and fundamental concepts of intelligence-gathering and analysis.  In addition to tracing the development of intelligence organizations, it examines both the disciplines of intelligence (signals intelligence and espionage, for example) and its products. It focuses on the effects intelligence exercises on decision making, particularly, but not exclusively, in the realm of national security and military policy. It uses case studies to illustrate enduring issues or problems in the study of intelligence.HMLS 3550Human Intel & Counter Intel(3)This course will examine the history of HUMINT and CI within the United States Intelligence Community (USIC) as well as the HUMINT and CI activities of key allies and adversaries. The course will be divided into thirds. The first portion will focus on the structure and functions of intelligence apparatuses throughout the world. In the second portion students will take an in-depth examination of numerous important case studies of successful HUMINT and CI operations. In the final section students will participate in a mock intelligence operation and class discussions regarding the ethics and future of human-based espionage.HMLS 3555History & Role of Intel Comm(3)This course will focus on key periods in the development of the modern US intelligence community, (1) Revolution to World War One, (2) World War Two, (3) the post World War Two reorganization, (4) the post-Cold War Period, and (5) post 9/11 reforms. Additionally, the different intelligence disciplines and major intelligence agencies will be examined.HMLS 3600Critical Infrastructure(3)This course introduces participants to the Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) process to secure the effective protection of the people, physical entities, and critical information systems. This course will introduce a time-efficient and resource-restrained practice that ensures the protection of only those infrastructures upon which survivability, continuity of operations, and mission success depend. The CIP course will guide leaders in the theories of physical protection and conducting vulnerability assessments of critical infrastructures. This course will also introduce the critical sectors currently identified by the United States Department of Homeland Security and how disruption of these sectors affects civilians and the economy.HMLS 3700Transport & Border Secur(3)This course provides a student with an analysis of issues that concern the protection of the borders of the United States and U.S. policies regarding the safety of the U.S. transportation system. The course analyses the changes in security arrangements from pre to post 9-11 policies, relative to border and transportation security, with a synthesis of the impact of the formation of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and on the issues concerning internal CONUS security relative to these two security concerns.HMLS 3910Special Topics(1-3)Special Topics in Homeland Security Studies. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99HMLS 3911Special Topics(1-3)Special Topics in Homeland Security Studies. Course may be repeated unlimited times for credit.Course Limit:99HMLS 3912Special Topics(1-3)Maximum Hours:99HMLS 3913Special Topics(1-3)Maximum Hours:99HMLS 3914Special Topics(1-3)Maximum Hours:99HMLS 3915Special Topics(1-3)Maximum Hours:99HMLS 3940Transfer Credit(1-4)Maximum Hours:99HMLS 4500Intelligence Analysis(3)This course presents an in-depth analysis of the methods used by terrorist organizations to finance global operations and the investigative techniques used to counter such measures. The means used by terrorist organizations to generate, transfer, and spend terrorist funding will be analyzed. It will also include research of public source, information sharing, and other information that can be used to connect the dots.""  During the computer lab portion to this course
Prerequisite(s):HMLS 3500.Prerequisite(s):HMLS 3500.HMLS 4560Internship(1-3)Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.Maximum Hours:99HMLS 4600Counter-Terrorism(3)This course will examine key policy issues and balances that must be addressed in strategic counterterrorism planning, particularly in the use of applied technology within the context of civil jurisdiction and rule of law.  The course will examine terrorist threats to the homeland and how these threats can be met by the application of science and technology.  Policy issues that address the balance between security and civil liberties that must be resolved to effectively counter terrorism will be discussed.  These issues will be addressed from the governance perspective of a liberal democracy.  Strategic planning principles that integrate capabilities of current and future applied technology and the key legal and policy issues that must be resolved in order to make effective use of information as balanced against civil liberties will be explored as well. 
Prerequisite(s):HMLS 3200.Prerequisite(s):HMLS 3200.HMLS 4700Maritime & Border Security(3)This course will examine the role of maritime security in terms of protecting the homeland of the United States and other countries who are members of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). The primary focus will be on the ISPS Code and the Maritime Transportation Security Act. 
Prerequisite(s):HMLS 3700.Prerequisite(s):HMLS 3700.HMLS 4910Independent Study(1-3)Independent study in Homeland Security Studies.HMLS 4920Independent Study(1-3)Independent study in Homeland Security Studies.HMLS 4990Practicum(3)The Practicum may include job-related field projects, integrative analyses of professional literature and published research, original research, original research projects, and comprehensive project proposals for adoption by third parties. In all cases, the Practicum is intended to demonstrate an extensive understanding of the topic area selected, the ability to develop an integrative and systemic analysis of a problem, and the ability to identify appropriate solutions and recommendations.  A written report documenting all aspects of the project will be presented for faculty approval. This course is only open to Post-Baccalaureate Certificate students and should be taken in the final year of study.