Industrial Hygiene Certificate (Graduate) Overview Requirements The online Graduate Certificate in Industrial Hygiene prepares professionals with basic knowledge of industrial hygiene and toxicology to recognize and control workplace hazards arising from chemical and physical agents. The Graduate Certificate in Industrial Hygiene is a non-degree program with concentrated study in industrial hygiene. Courses carry degree credit that may be applied toward the MSPH or MPH degrees.  This graduate certificate is offered by distance learning for midcareer professionals. The Graduate Certificate program provides knowledge and skills to meet the educational requirements of the American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH) certification exam. ABIH has the final determination of eligibility to sit for the CIH exam. The CIH certification is the hallmark of professional achievement and competence within the field of industrial hygiene. Professionals who select the certificate may already have a master’s degree and seek a specialization in industrial hygiene. Many who do not have a master’s degree apply the credits from the graduate certificate toward the MSPH in industrial hygiene. Backgrounds of professionals in the industrial hygiene program include: those with experience in health and safety, occupational health, environmental public health, or science bachelor’s degrees who seek careers in occupational health and safety. Program Competencies At the completion of the Graduate Certificate in Industrial Hygiene, the student will be able to: Recognize hazardous agents and the adverse effects of exposure Anticipate and evaluate work place hazards using basic and applied scientific and engineering principles. Specify types of personal protective equipment and other controls for work place hazards and exposures. The Graduate Certificate in Industrial Hygiene requires a total of 15 credits that includes: Course List Course ID Title Credits Required Courses ENHS 6030 Survey of Environmental Health 3 ENHS 6600 Principles of Toxicology 3 ENHS 6720 Principles of Industrial Hygiene 3 Select six credits from the following: 6 ENHS 6300 Radiological Health ENHS 6540 Occupational Health ENHS 6620 Physical Agents & Ergonomic Hazards in the Workplace ENHS 7110 Industrial Ventilation & Chemical Hazard Control ENHS 7500 Air Sampling & Analysis 1 Total Credit Hours 15 1 This course requires a one week on campus laboratory section. Dates for on campus lab posted in calendar. Apply Graduate Certificate Credits toward the MSPH in Industrial Hygiene IH course credits taken in the graduate certificate may be applied to the MSPH in industrial hygiene. Students proceeding onto the MSPH degree in IH complete a total of 45 credits that include the remainder of the required IH courses and the SPHTM core. Only the MSPH degree is awarded. Student must have a GPA of 3.0 in coursework and meet the IH admission requirements to transfer to the degree program. Contact the DL manager prior to completion of the certificate for information. Combined Graduate Certificate with a MPH Degree in Another Area Student in another MPH degree program seeking to add a graduate certificate in IH may use the elective credits available in a degree program, but not required courses, for the graduate certificate. Required courses cannot be double counted toward both the MPH and the IH graduate certificate. If there is an overlap in required courses, the student, in consultation with their advisor, selects other industrial hygiene courses to meet the 15 credits for the certificate. The combined MPH and the IH graduate certificate may take 2 to 6 additional credits beyond the total for the MPH degree alone.

The Graduate Certificate in Industrial Hygiene requires a total of 15 credits that includes: Course List Course ID Title Credits Required Courses ENHS 6030 Survey of Environmental Health 3 ENHS 6600 Principles of Toxicology 3 ENHS 6720 Principles of Industrial Hygiene 3 Select six credits from the following: 6 ENHS 6300 Radiological Health ENHS 6540 Occupational Health ENHS 6620 Physical Agents & Ergonomic Hazards in the Workplace ENHS 7110 Industrial Ventilation & Chemical Hazard Control ENHS 7500 Air Sampling & Analysis 1 Total Credit Hours 15 1 This course requires a one week on campus laboratory section. Dates for on campus lab posted in calendar. Apply Graduate Certificate Credits toward the MSPH in Industrial Hygiene IH course credits taken in the graduate certificate may be applied to the MSPH in industrial hygiene. Students proceeding onto the MSPH degree in IH complete a total of 45 credits that include the remainder of the required IH courses and the SPHTM core. Only the MSPH degree is awarded. Student must have a GPA of 3.0 in coursework and meet the IH admission requirements to transfer to the degree program. Contact the DL manager prior to completion of the certificate for information. Combined Graduate Certificate with a MPH Degree in Another Area Student in another MPH degree program seeking to add a graduate certificate in IH may use the elective credits available in a degree program, but not required courses, for the graduate certificate. Required courses cannot be double counted toward both the MPH and the IH graduate certificate. If there is an overlap in required courses, the student, in consultation with their advisor, selects other industrial hygiene courses to meet the 15 credits for the certificate. The combined MPH and the IH graduate certificate may take 2 to 6 additional credits beyond the total for the MPH degree alone.