Interdisciplinary Dance Performance, MFA Overview Requirements Through the lens of movement and performance making, the Interdisciplinary Dance Performance (IDP) MFA program is envisioned to provide graduate opportunities for scholarly investigation in diverse disciplines that directly link to creative practice and performance making. The program is designed to create performance practitioners who understand the intellectual ramifications of their work and scholars who understand the practical applications of their theories. That is , the research in any given discipline will be source material for the creative work and creative work will illuminate and integrate research. Course List Course ID Title Credits DANC 6010 Movement Practice (taken 5 times) 3 DANC 6210 Sem I: Text & Movement Studies 3 DANC 6220 Sem II: Writing about Dance 3 DANC 6410 Choreography & Media 3 DANC 6550 Laban Movement Studies 3 DANC 7900 Management / Portfolio 3 DANC 7990 MFA Thesis Project 3 DANC 7991 MFA Thesis Project II - Analysis 3 DANC/THEA Special Topics, Independent, or approved elective Study 3 Interdisciplinary: 6 or 7 (3-credit) courses from non-dance department 18 Total Credit Hours: 57 minimum (63 maximum) Curriculum Timetable, Interdisciplinary Dance Performance (IDP) MFA, 3 years Summary: DANC 6010, Creative Projects and Movement Practice (3 credits per semester) to be taken 5-6 semesters = 15-18 credits Dance Specific Courses = 24 credits 6-7 interdisciplinary 3-credit classes (18-21 credits) Total credits: 57 minimum First Year:  Creative Projects and Movement Practice, Seminar I, Laban Movement Studies, Choreography and Media, Interdisciplinary Courses, Work/Study in design shops, choreography for undergraduates, or dance program assistance each semester. Second Year:   Creative Projects and Movement Practice, Seminar II, Management /Portfolio in spring, Interdisciplinary Course(s), Work/Study teaching undergraduates, or choreography for undergraduates, or dance program assistance, and thesis proposal in the spring semester. Third Year: Creative Projects and Movement Practice, Interdisciplinary Course(s), Work/Study teaching undergraduates or dance program assistance, Thesis Project I – Production: preparation and production in fall semester, including undergraduate students as performers. Thesis Project II-Analysis: Written thesis, thesis defense, and graduation in spring. Total – 57 minimum credits. (Including interdisciplinary courses) Interdisciplinary courses to be coordinated with respective departments by MFA student and/or DGS of IDP MFA. Summary of Interdisciplinary courses is due to DGS of IDP MFA at end of each semester for dance faculty, outlining courses completed and relationship to IDP MFA.

Course List Course ID Title Credits DANC 6010 Movement Practice (taken 5 times) 3 DANC 6210 Sem I: Text & Movement Studies 3 DANC 6220 Sem II: Writing about Dance 3 DANC 6410 Choreography & Media 3 DANC 6550 Laban Movement Studies 3 DANC 7900 Management / Portfolio 3 DANC 7990 MFA Thesis Project 3 DANC 7991 MFA Thesis Project II - Analysis 3 DANC/THEA Special Topics, Independent, or approved elective Study 3 Interdisciplinary: 6 or 7 (3-credit) courses from non-dance department 18 Total Credit Hours: 57 minimum (63 maximum) Curriculum Timetable, Interdisciplinary Dance Performance (IDP) MFA, 3 years Summary: DANC 6010, Creative Projects and Movement Practice (3 credits per semester) to be taken 5-6 semesters = 15-18 credits Dance Specific Courses = 24 credits 6-7 interdisciplinary 3-credit classes (18-21 credits) Total credits: 57 minimum First Year:  Creative Projects and Movement Practice, Seminar I, Laban Movement Studies, Choreography and Media, Interdisciplinary Courses, Work/Study in design shops, choreography for undergraduates, or dance program assistance each semester. Second Year:   Creative Projects and Movement Practice, Seminar II, Management /Portfolio in spring, Interdisciplinary Course(s), Work/Study teaching undergraduates, or choreography for undergraduates, or dance program assistance, and thesis proposal in the spring semester. Third Year: Creative Projects and Movement Practice, Interdisciplinary Course(s), Work/Study teaching undergraduates or dance program assistance, Thesis Project I – Production: preparation and production in fall semester, including undergraduate students as performers. Thesis Project II-Analysis: Written thesis, thesis defense, and graduation in spring. Total – 57 minimum credits. (Including interdisciplinary courses) Interdisciplinary courses to be coordinated with respective departments by MFA student and/or DGS of IDP MFA. Summary of Interdisciplinary courses is due to DGS of IDP MFA at end of each semester for dance faculty, outlining courses completed and relationship to IDP MFA.