Latin American Studies Major Overview Requirements Latin American Studies prepares students for a job market that increasingly demands keen global sensibilities and the ability to work between cultures. Introducing diverse methodological and theoretical approaches to the study of Latin America, while providing a core interdisciplinary foundation in the humanities and social sciences, Latin American Studies prepares students to engage a broad spectrum of local and global phenomena with intellectual rigor and flexibility. Students may choose courses from twenty cooperating departments, taught by some seventy affiliated faculty speci alizing in the region. Interdisciplinary and comparative perspectives on the region offer students a depth of knowledge of hemispheric relations and build area expertise . The curriculum approaches Latin America as both a local and foreign culture , illuminat ing critical transnational issues such as immigration, climate change, cultural flows, security, and economic development that transcend the boundaries of the region . The major’s solid foundation in language skills , cultural and political understanding , experiential learning and international education and training provide critical preparation for careers in an increasingly globalized world. Students receiving this degree go on to careers in business, education, public service, government and humanitarian work, health care and health sciences , and law and advocacy, among others. Many graduates pursue careers in education or go on for more advanced degrees in Latin American Studies and a range of disciplines in the humanities and social sciences including Sociology, Political Science, Anthropology, Art History, Communications, History and others . The major also provides a valuable supplement for those who subsequently purs ue professional degrees in business, law, engineering, medicine, public hea lth or other fields. Students majoring in Latin American Studies are urged to minor (or get a second major) in a core discipline such as anthropology, economics, history, literature, art history, political science, or sociology. The Latin American Studies major requires a minimum of 30 credit hours in 10 Latin American content courses. Courses are selected from the various departments offering classes in the field as well as from Latin American Studies. Latin American Studies students should consult the Schedule of Classes each semester to review available electives and are advised to confer with their major advisor to structure their course of study, particularly when planning study abroad coursework. Course List Course ID Title Credits Required Courses LAST 1010 Introduction to Latin American Studies 3 LAST 4000 Core Seminar 1 4 One of the following: 2 3 LAST 3000 Approaches to Latin American Studies (or) LAST 3010 Approaches to Latinx Studies Seven Electives 1 may be at any level 3 2 must be at the 2000-level or higher 6 2 must be at the 4000-level or higher 6 2 must be at the 6000-level 3 6 Total Credit Hours 31 1 LAST 4000 Core Seminar is offered fall semesters only and is intended to be completed in the final year. 2 LAST 3000 or 3010 may be used as elective if not used to fulfill this requirement. 3 All 6000 - level coursework for the major must be taken in residence at Tulane University; courses taken abroad will not count toward this requirement. Students who take at least 20 college credits in 7 courses with Latin American content while on academic programs in Latin America approved by Tulane are required to take only two courses at the 6000 - level.

The Latin American Studies major requires a minimum of 30 credit hours in 10 Latin American content courses. Courses are selected from the various departments offering classes in the field as well as from Latin American Studies. Latin American Studies students should consult the Schedule of Classes each semester to review available electives and are advised to confer with their major advisor to structure their course of study, particularly when planning study abroad coursework. Course List Course ID Title Credits Required Courses LAST 1010 Introduction to Latin American Studies 3 LAST 4000 Core Seminar 1 4 One of the following: 2 3 LAST 3000 Approaches to Latin American Studies (or) LAST 3010 Approaches to Latinx Studies Seven Electives 1 may be at any level 3 2 must be at the 2000-level or higher 6 2 must be at the 4000-level or higher 6 2 must be at the 6000-level 3 6 Total Credit Hours 31 1 LAST 4000 Core Seminar is offered fall semesters only and is intended to be completed in the final year. 2 LAST 3000 or 3010 may be used as elective if not used to fulfill this requirement. 3 All 6000 - level coursework for the major must be taken in residence at Tulane University; courses taken abroad will not count toward this requirement. Students who take at least 20 college credits in 7 courses with Latin American content while on academic programs in Latin America approved by Tulane are required to take only two courses at the 6000 - level.