Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate) Overview Requirements The Certificate in Maternal and Child Health (MCH) provides the knowledge and skills that will prepare students to contribute to community programs, research, and other interventions aimed at improving the health and well-being of vulnerable and underserved women, children, and families. Students will gain knowledge about emerging issues in MCH, MCH policy and governmental services, evidence-based programming and the MCH population from a life course perspective.  All of the relevant courses are in SBPS. The MCH certificate courses pair well with other public health degree courses. This graduate certificate serves as a secondary area of study for SPHTM students enrolled in the MPH, MSPH or MPHTM degrees. Offered by: Department of Social, Behavioral, and Populations Sciences Faculty Lead: Shokufeh Ramirez, PhD Certificate Purpose The courses required for the certificate provide students with a background in the biologic, sociocultural, behavioral, and policy issues that impact the health of the MCH population.  The certificate is conceptualized with a sensitivity to cultural diversity within a global context. Students will be able to undertake the process of planning and evaluating community programs with a special emphasis on women and children. Eligible Students This certificate program is designed for current MPH/MSPH/MPH&TM/MHA students who are not pursuing the Master of Public Health in Maternal and Child Health (MCH). The certificate is a complement to degrees in other areas. Certificate Competencies Students who earn the Certificate in Maternal and Child Health will be able to: Recognize the different strengths, needs, values and practices of diverse cultural, racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic groups and determine how these factors affect health status, health behaviors, and program design; Describe the historical development, scientific basis, financing and structural organization of MCH public policies and practices in the United States for federal, state, and local agencies and programs serving MCH populations; Evaluate and use theories and principles of individual and family growth and development from an intergenerational and lifespan perspective; Evaluate evidence-based methods that contribute to the translation of research into programming and practice. Number of Credits Required for Completion: 15 Course List Course ID Title Credits SBPS 6460 Child Health and Development in Public Health 3 SBPS 6490 Key Policies and Programs in Maternal and Child Health 3 SBPS 6510 Essential Issues in Maternal and Child Health 3 SBPS 7510 Maternal Child Health: The Life Course Perspective 3 SBPS 7250 Evidence-Based Research Methods in Social and Behavioral Sciences 3 Total Credit Hours 15 Students should consult with their academic advisor to determine if the MCH certificate fits their professional and academic goals and how best to plan their graduate course schedule.

Course List Course ID Title Credits SBPS 6460 Child Health and Development in Public Health 3 SBPS 6490 Key Policies and Programs in Maternal and Child Health 3 SBPS 6510 Essential Issues in Maternal and Child Health 3 SBPS 7510 Maternal Child Health: The Life Course Perspective 3 SBPS 7250 Evidence-Based Research Methods in Social and Behavioral Sciences 3 Total Credit Hours 15 Students should consult with their academic advisor to determine if the MCH certificate fits their professional and academic goals and how best to plan their graduate course schedule.