Medical Humanities Graduate Certificate Overview Requirements The Certificate in Medical Humanities Program is designed to provide clinical and non-clinical health care professionals, students of medicine, and interested lay members of the public with the fundamentals of the medical humanities with less time commitment than an MS degree. The Certificate curriculum consists of 4 courses (12 credit hours total) and provides students with the fundamental principles of medical humanities and study of medical history, narrative medicine, and/or the intersection of film and literature with medicine. If students wish to pursue their studies further, their credits from the certificate can apply towards a Masters of Science degree in Bioethics and Medical Humanities. Upon completion of the Medical Humanities certificate coursework, students will be able to: Describe, distinguish, and apply the fundamental concepts, principles, and methodologies used in the medical humanities Evaluate the impact of the history of medicine on current medical practice and social evaluation of modern health care systems Critically analyze the effect of literature and film on perceptions of modern medical practice Conduct and create reflections on medicine through narrative writing Assess the intersection of the fine arts and health care systems and practices This program consists of four courses, one of which is a core course, two of which are selected from a group of three possible options, and one elective option. Upon completion of the Certificate Program students will have completed 12 credit hours of coursework. Elective courses are subject to change, and new electives are being created all the time. Please consult your advisor for current elective options. Course List Course ID Title Credits BEMH 6003 Medical Humanities 3 Select two of the following: 6 BEMH 6016 Narrative in Medicine BEMH 6008 History of Medicine BEMH 6005 Studies in Bioethics through Film Electives (Select One) 3 BEMH 6001 Neuroethics: The Ethics of Neuroscience and the Neuroscience of Ethics BEMH 6006 The Doctor As Author BEMH 6007 Ethical Thoery BEMH 6011 Clinical Ethics BEMH 6012 The End of Life in Film & Lit. BEMH 6013 Medicine and Identity BEMH 6014 Pandemic Ethics BEMH 6015 Pro-Natalism, Anti-Natalism and the Ethics of Human Reproduction Total Credit Hours 12

This program consists of four courses, one of which is a core course, two of which are selected from a group of three possible options, and one elective option. Upon completion of the Certificate Program students will have completed 12 credit hours of coursework. Elective courses are subject to change, and new electives are being created all the time. Please consult your advisor for current elective options. Course List Course ID Title Credits BEMH 6003 Medical Humanities 3 Select two of the following: 6 BEMH 6016 Narrative in Medicine BEMH 6008 History of Medicine BEMH 6005 Studies in Bioethics through Film Electives (Select One) 3 BEMH 6001 Neuroethics: The Ethics of Neuroscience and the Neuroscience of Ethics BEMH 6006 The Doctor As Author BEMH 6007 Ethical Thoery BEMH 6011 Clinical Ethics BEMH 6012 The End of Life in Film & Lit. BEMH 6013 Medicine and Identity BEMH 6014 Pandemic Ethics BEMH 6015 Pro-Natalism, Anti-Natalism and the Ethics of Human Reproduction Total Credit Hours 12