Methods in Monitoring and Evaluation Certificate (Graduate) Overview Requirements Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is critical as donors, governments, and other relevant stakeholders attempt to validate their investments and improve public health program performance. Students with a Certificate in Methods in M&E can expect to acquire the necessary skills to assess the performance, effectiveness, and impact of global public health programs. The courses offered will enable students to work effectively with global public health organizations involved with M&E and program implementation. The Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine is recognized for its expertise in M&E, and for producing students with strong marketable skills in this area. Students with this certificate will be prepared for jobs within the public and private sector that focus on M&E across a broad range of public health areas. Jobs in this area include M&E specialists and advisors, technical advisors, data analysts and program managers. Certificate Purpose Students will meet the following learning objectives to earn a certificate in M&E: Utilize and apply the basic terminology and definitions of M&E including basic epidemiological measurements, impact evaluation, indicators, precision, bias, internal and external validity, logical frameworks and public health program goals, measurable objectives, inputs, outputs, outcomes and impacts; Calculate basic measures commonly used in M&E; Draw appropriate inferences from M&E data; Work with stakeholders to conduct evaluations and improve programs; and Communicate M&E information and findings to other lay and professional audiences. Eligible Students Students enrolled in a MPH, MSPH, MPH&TM degree program at Tulane SPHTM. Certificate Competencies Students obtaining a certificate in M&E can expect to acquire the following competencies: Understand the theory and role of M&E of global public health programs, and explain the importance of M&E data for informing public health programs and decision making; Ability to monitor and assess the implementation, effectiveness, and impact of public health programs; and Ability to work effectively with donors, governments, implementing organizations and other relevant stakeholders to validate investments and improve global public health program performance. Number of Credits Required for Completion: 15 Prerequisite courses are SPHL 6050 Biostatistics for Public Health and SPHL 6060 Epidemiology for Public Health and proficiency in the use of statistical packages (e.g. EPID 6230 or SPHU 4160). Course List Course ID Title Credits TRMD 6200 Impact Evaluation in Global Health 3 or IHSD 6200 Evaluation of Program Interventions in Global Health IHSD 6300 Monitoring of Global Health Programs 3 EPID 7120 Epidemiologic Methods II 3 BIOS 6040 Intermediate Biostatistics 3 Elective 1 3 Total Credit Hours 15 1 Three Additional Credits in a Topical Area Relevant to M&E In addition to the main requirements of the certificate as stated above, students are expected to take three additional credits in a topical area relevant to M&E and are intended to provide deeper and/ or topic specific training in an area relevant to M&E. These three credits will enrich this largely methods focused certificate by providing additional training in the M&E of a topical area of interest to the student and/or by expanding their knowledge of relevant M&E methods. This training might come in the form of measurement in a topical area, additional methodological training appropriate for M&E experts, or in applications of M&E approaches to specific public health problems or areas. Credits may be made up of one or several courses determined, documented in advance, in collaboration with the certificate leader. Examples of classes include: IHSD 8250 Advanced Research Methods in Global Health IHSD 7440 Household Sampling Applications in Developing Countries, and IHSD 7140 Monitoring and Evaluation of HIV/AIDS Programs

Prerequisite courses are SPHL 6050 Biostatistics for Public Health and SPHL 6060 Epidemiology for Public Health and proficiency in the use of statistical packages (e.g. EPID 6230 or SPHU 4160). Course List Course ID Title Credits TRMD 6200 Impact Evaluation in Global Health 3 or IHSD 6200 Evaluation of Program Interventions in Global Health IHSD 6300 Monitoring of Global Health Programs 3 EPID 7120 Epidemiologic Methods II 3 BIOS 6040 Intermediate Biostatistics 3 Elective 1 3 Total Credit Hours 15 1 Three Additional Credits in a Topical Area Relevant to M&E In addition to the main requirements of the certificate as stated above, students are expected to take three additional credits in a topical area relevant to M&E and are intended to provide deeper and/ or topic specific training in an area relevant to M&E. These three credits will enrich this largely methods focused certificate by providing additional training in the M&E of a topical area of interest to the student and/or by expanding their knowledge of relevant M&E methods. This training might come in the form of measurement in a topical area, additional methodological training appropriate for M&E experts, or in applications of M&E approaches to specific public health problems or areas. Credits may be made up of one or several courses determined, documented in advance, in collaboration with the certificate leader. Examples of classes include: IHSD 8250 Advanced Research Methods in Global Health IHSD 7440 Household Sampling Applications in Developing Countries, and IHSD 7140 Monitoring and Evaluation of HIV/AIDS Programs