Music, MFA Overview Requirements The Department of Music offers the Master of Fine Arts degree in Performance and Musical Theatre . The Department of Music offers an MFA in Performance for graduate students receiving training from music professors who are professional artists and scholars. Performers have the advantage of training in an intense academic environment while sharpening music techniques and performance skills. This occurs through participation in large and small ensembles, as well as through varied solo performance opportunities. Our goal is for students to become well-rounded performers with essential instrumental or vocal technique who are able to make historically informed performance choices. If you have any questions about the following material please contact Prof. Dulaney . Piano, Voice, Guitar, Other Instruments Candidates for the M.F.A. degree in performance must take 30 hours of course work: Course List Course ID Title Credits Select 18 hours in music literature, theory, history, performance, or other appropriate areas 18 Select 12 semester hours of lessons in voice or in the specialized instrument 12 Total Credit Hours 30 In place of a thesis the candidate must perform a full-length recital of 90 minutes. Candidates for the M.F.A. degree in Musical Theater must take 36 hours of course work and must either perform a recital or choreograph or direct a major musical theater production. Performers must submit a headshot and resume to Michael McKelvey , head of the Musical Theatre Program. The performers will be expected to audition live or with a video. The audition will include two songs and a monologue. Dance is optional.

Piano, Voice, Guitar, Other Instruments Candidates for the M.F.A. degree in performance must take 30 hours of course work: Course List Course ID Title Credits Select 18 hours in music literature, theory, history, performance, or other appropriate areas 18 Select 12 semester hours of lessons in voice or in the specialized instrument 12 Total Credit Hours 30 In place of a thesis the candidate must perform a full-length recital of 90 minutes. Candidates for the M.F.A. degree in Musical Theater must take 36 hours of course work and must either perform a recital or choreograph or direct a major musical theater production. Performers must submit a headshot and resume to Michael McKelvey , head of the Musical Theatre Program. The performers will be expected to audition live or with a video. The audition will include two songs and a monologue. Dance is optional.