Neuroscience, MS Overview Requirements Tulane University offers two versions of its Master of Science degree in Neuroscience. One version is for students with baccalaureate degrees from other institutions. The other version is our 4 + 1 program for students who earned their B.S. at Tulane University. The purpose of the 4+1 M.S. Program in Neuroscience is to provide Tulane students with training at the graduate level for one additional year beyond the baccalaureate degree. Completion of an empirical master’s thesis under the guidance of an advisor who is a faculty member of the Tulane Brain Institute is optional. Students in both versions of the M.S. program take courses relevant to their interests in Neuroscience and related fields.   The mission of the M.S. program is to prepare students for admission to doctoral programs in the neurosciences, for admission to medical or other professional schools, or the workforce.  Completion of the M.S. program does not guarantee acceptance to Tulane's Ph.D. programs or medical school. Students pursuing an advanced degree in Neuroscience benefit from a multidisciplinary education and training in the sciences of the brain and nervous system. In addition, our students develop professional skills such as reading scientific literature, public speaking/presentations, and collaboration/team work. Students accepted to the Master’s in Neuroscience program may follow one of two tracks toward completion of an M.S. in Neuroscience. For the Thesis Track option (24 credit hours of coursework and 6 credits of research), students will take courses relevant to their interests in neuroscience or related fields and complete an empirical master’s thesis under the supervision of an adviser who is a member of the Tulane Brain Institute. Because completion of an empirical master’s thesis normally requires more than one year, students who plan to complete a thesis, should already be engaged in research that they can continue during the program. The thesis adviser will provide guidance in all aspects of the master’s thesis. For the Non-Thesis Track option (30 credit hours), students will take courses relevant to their interests in neuroscience or related fields, and may participate in research for credit, but are not required to complete an empirical master’s thesis. All MS students will meet with the M.S. program adviser to plan their course schedule. Graduation Requirements Students must complete 30 credits of coursework if they are pursuing the non-thesis track. If they decide to complete a Master's thesis, 24 credits of coursework, plus six credits of research and an empirical research thesis must be completed. 4+1 Required Courses Course List Course ID Title Credits NSCI 6030 Brain Institute Seminar 1 NSCI 6040 Trends In Neuroscience 1 NSCI 7110 Graduate Neuroscience I 3 NSCI 6400 Neuroscience Applied 3 M.S. Required Courses Course List Course ID Title Credits NSCI 6030 Brain Institute Seminar 1 NSCI 6040 Trends In Neuroscience 1 NSCI 6310 Cellular Neuroscience 3 or NSCI 7110 Graduate Neuroscience I NSCI 6400 Neuroscience Applied 3 Elective Courses In addition to the 8 credits of required courses listed above, students should take at least 22 credits of elective graduate courses to reach the minimum of 30 credits required to graduate. Students may earn up to six credits of independent research.

Graduation Requirements Students must complete 30 credits of coursework if they are pursuing the non-thesis track. If they decide to complete a Master's thesis, 24 credits of coursework, plus six credits of research and an empirical research thesis must be completed. 4+1 Required Courses Course List Course ID Title Credits NSCI 6030 Brain Institute Seminar 1 NSCI 6040 Trends In Neuroscience 1 NSCI 7110 Graduate Neuroscience I 3 NSCI 6400 Neuroscience Applied 3 M.S. Required Courses Course List Course ID Title Credits NSCI 6030 Brain Institute Seminar 1 NSCI 6040 Trends In Neuroscience 1 NSCI 6310 Cellular Neuroscience 3 or NSCI 7110 Graduate Neuroscience I NSCI 6400 Neuroscience Applied 3 Elective Courses In addition to the 8 credits of required courses listed above, students should take at least 22 credits of elective graduate courses to reach the minimum of 30 credits required to graduate. Students may earn up to six credits of independent research.