Political Science/ International Development Major Overview Requirements PSDV is the most inter-disciplinary Political Science major track. It focuses on the analysis of unequal political, social, and economic development around the world and what might be done to improve the livelihoods of people in the Global South as well as underprivileged communities in the United States. This track offers students an education firmly rooted in a social science framework that allows them to explore multiple meanings of international development. Coursework within the department introduces students to the history, theories, and methods of the field, allows them to deepen their knowledge of at least one world area (Latin America, Africa, Middle East, or Asia), and offers in-depth study of policy areas including poverty, migration, human rights, transitional justice, gender, foreign aid, food and agriculture, health, and environmental sustainability. Majors are required to complete one level beyond minimum proficiency in a language other than English, as well as introductory macroeconomics and international political economy courses. In recognition of the interdisciplinary nature of international development, majors and minors must complete electives in other departments. Choices include courses in Anthropology, Architecture, Asian Studies, Communication, Evolutionary Biology, Earth Science, Economics, History, Philosophy, Public Health, Sociology, Social Work, and Theatre. The Department of Political Science strongly recommends that PSDV students take advantage of at least one study abroad opportunity while at Tulane. We also encourage students to seek relevant internship opportunities inside and outside of the United States. This major prepares students to compete for Fulbright grants, study for professional and graduate degrees, and work for the U.S. government, international organizations, NGOs, foundations, and private firms. TO DECLARE A POLS, PSIR OR PSDV MAJOR and for information about undergraduate advising in Political Science, please go to: https://liberalarts.tulane.edu/departments/political-science/undergraduate-advising Please note, you cannot declare two political science majors. You must choose either POLS, PSIR or PSDV. Course List Course ID Title Credits Required Courses PSDV 2400 Intro to Internatl Development 3 One out of the following two: PSDV 2010 Research Design and Methods for International Development 3 POLS 2010 Scope/Methods Poli Sci 3 One out of the following two: POLC 2300 Comparative Politics 3 POLI 2500 International Relations 3 Choose One Course from the Following: 3 Any PSDV 3000- level course POLC 3200 African Politics POLC 3310 Politics of Central America POLC 3340 Middle East Comp Politics POLC 3350 Politics of Latin America POLC 3380 Asian Governments Economics Component ECON 1020 Intro to Macroeconomics 3 POLI 3540 Internationl Political Economy 3,4 Foreign Language Component Students must complete one additional three-credit course beyond the SLA foreign-language requirements.  Course must be taught in the target language. 3 Electives FIVE courses, at least TWO must be PSDV classes and at least TWO must come from outside of Political Science (see the approved list of classes in the checklist). 15 Pre-requisites For all major tracks (POLS, POLI, & PSDV),students must have successfully completed POLS 2010 Scope/Methods Poli Sci (3 c.h.) and the correlating  introductory course in order to enroll in any course above the 3000-level.  For example, students must complete POLA 2100 American Government (3 c.h.) in order to enroll in POLA 4000 or 6000-level courses.  Faculty may choose to add other pre-requisites to any course and are encouraged to do so in any case in which they feel that doing so would improve student preparation for and performance in their own courses.  Non-major juniors and seniors may enroll in courses at the 4000-level or above with the consent of the instructor.  The Political Science department enforces all pre-requisites.  Students must have successfully completed a pre-requisite the semester before registering for any class.  The department reserves the right to drop students who are missing the pre-requisite from the course without notice. Level of Course Work Students must successfully complete at least three courses at the 4000 or 6000 level. An Honor's thesis in Political Science will count as one 4000-level elective One Political Science independent study may count as a 4000-level elective but only if it is taken for 3 credits Students may count one Political Science internship course ( POLS 4560 Internship (1,3 c.h.) Internship) toward the major requirements, however it will not count toward the three required 4000- or 6000-level electives.

TO DECLARE A POLS, PSIR OR PSDV MAJOR and for information about undergraduate advising in Political Science, please go to: https://liberalarts.tulane.edu/departments/political-science/undergraduate-advising Please note, you cannot declare two political science majors. You must choose either POLS, PSIR or PSDV. Course List Course ID Title Credits Required Courses PSDV 2400 Intro to Internatl Development 3 One out of the following two: PSDV 2010 Research Design and Methods for International Development 3 POLS 2010 Scope/Methods Poli Sci 3 One out of the following two: POLC 2300 Comparative Politics 3 POLI 2500 International Relations 3 Choose One Course from the Following: 3 Any PSDV 3000- level course POLC 3200 African Politics POLC 3310 Politics of Central America POLC 3340 Middle East Comp Politics POLC 3350 Politics of Latin America POLC 3380 Asian Governments Economics Component ECON 1020 Intro to Macroeconomics 3 POLI 3540 Internationl Political Economy 3,4 Foreign Language Component Students must complete one additional three-credit course beyond the SLA foreign-language requirements.  Course must be taught in the target language. 3 Electives FIVE courses, at least TWO must be PSDV classes and at least TWO must come from outside of Political Science (see the approved list of classes in the checklist). 15 Pre-requisites For all major tracks (POLS, POLI, & PSDV),students must have successfully completed POLS 2010 Scope/Methods Poli Sci (3 c.h.) and the correlating  introductory course in order to enroll in any course above the 3000-level.  For example, students must complete POLA 2100 American Government (3 c.h.) in order to enroll in POLA 4000 or 6000-level courses.  Faculty may choose to add other pre-requisites to any course and are encouraged to do so in any case in which they feel that doing so would improve student preparation for and performance in their own courses.  Non-major juniors and seniors may enroll in courses at the 4000-level or above with the consent of the instructor.  The Political Science department enforces all pre-requisites.  Students must have successfully completed a pre-requisite the semester before registering for any class.  The department reserves the right to drop students who are missing the pre-requisite from the course without notice. Level of Course Work Students must successfully complete at least three courses at the 4000 or 6000 level. An Honor's thesis in Political Science will count as one 4000-level elective One Political Science independent study may count as a 4000-level elective but only if it is taken for 3 credits Students may count one Political Science internship course ( POLS 4560 Internship (1,3 c.h.) Internship) toward the major requirements, however it will not count toward the three required 4000- or 6000-level electives.