Psychology, PhD Overview Requirements Graduate studies leading to the Ph.D. degree in psychology are designed to offer the student training in a major research area within psychology, expertise in quantitative and design methodology, and varied research opportunities. Students study either an area of Psychological Science (Cognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience, Developmental Psychology, or Social Psychology) or School Psychology (which is accredited by the American Psychological Association). The minimum requirements for the Ph.D. degree include: A total of 48 hours of graduate course credits.  These credits include 3 courses in core areas of psychology (e.g., developmental psychology), 3 courses in quantitative methods (e.g., multivariate statistics), and other approved courses and research projects. Completion of a Master's thesis in psychology including the production of at least one empirical study. Satisfactory performance on a comprehensive preliminary examination. Proposal and completion of an original dissertation research project. Successful defense of the written doctoral dissertation through an oral examination. The requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology with a specialization in School Psychology are similar to those noted above except that students complete a minimum of 62 didactic hours, 24 practicum hours, and a one-year pre-doctoral clinical internship.

The minimum requirements for the Ph.D. degree include: A total of 48 hours of graduate course credits.  These credits include 3 courses in core areas of psychology (e.g., developmental psychology), 3 courses in quantitative methods (e.g., multivariate statistics), and other approved courses and research projects. Completion of a Master's thesis in psychology including the production of at least one empirical study. Satisfactory performance on a comprehensive preliminary examination. Proposal and completion of an original dissertation research project. Successful defense of the written doctoral dissertation through an oral examination. The requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology with a specialization in School Psychology are similar to those noted above except that students complete a minimum of 62 didactic hours, 24 practicum hours, and a one-year pre-doctoral clinical internship.