Public Health Minor Overview Requirements The Public Health Minor has been designed for students who are looking for an introduction to the field and its disciplines. This minor offers a complementary curriculum for students who are on a pre-medical track or those majoring in fields, such as environmental sciences or policy, which may incorporate a health focus. The coursework for the minor offers exposure to the concepts and applications of public health in a variety of the specific disciplines which make up the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. To declare the Public Health minor: Student must be in good academic standing with an overall GPA of 2.0 or better. All minor courses must be taken for a letter grade. Completion of the minor requires a GPA of 2.0 or better in all classes taken for credit towards the minor. The Public Health Minor requires a minimum of 18 hours in undergraduate public health credits. See below, or check out the Minor requirements checklist, for details. Students are required to take the following courses for a total of 9 credits: Course List Course ID Title Credits SPHU 1010 Intro To Public Health 3 SPHU 1020 Cell, Individual & Commu 3 SPHU 3170 Foundations of Epidemiology 3 Select three additional Public Health courses 1 9 Total Credit Hours 18 1 Students choose three (3) additional public health courses for nine (9) credits.  Courses with the SPHU prefix (e.g., SPHU 3010, SPHU 4210) will count as an elective.  One study abroad course may count toward this requirement with approval of a program advisor. Please note the following before applying to the Public Health Minor: Applicants must be in good academic standing with an overall GPA of 2.0 or better. All minor courses must be taken for a letter grade. Completion of the minor requires a GPA of 2.0 or better in all classes taken for credit towards the minor.

The Public Health Minor requires a minimum of 18 hours in undergraduate public health credits. See below, or check out the Minor requirements checklist, for details. Students are required to take the following courses for a total of 9 credits: Course List Course ID Title Credits SPHU 1010 Intro To Public Health 3 SPHU 1020 Cell, Individual & Commu 3 SPHU 3170 Foundations of Epidemiology 3 Select three additional Public Health courses 1 9 Total Credit Hours 18 1 Students choose three (3) additional public health courses for nine (9) credits.  Courses with the SPHU prefix (e.g., SPHU 3010, SPHU 4210) will count as an elective.  One study abroad course may count toward this requirement with approval of a program advisor. Please note the following before applying to the Public Health Minor: Applicants must be in good academic standing with an overall GPA of 2.0 or better. All minor courses must be taken for a letter grade. Completion of the minor requires a GPA of 2.0 or better in all classes taken for credit towards the minor.