Public Relations, B.A. Overview Requirements The Media + Design Program’s Public Relations major will equip students with content-rich and highly competitive skills that are necessary in the public relations and strategic communication industries. In the program, students will demonstrate  mastery in the following: the fundamentals of the public relations process including research, planning, implementation and evaluation - the steps necessary for campaign development; writing for strategic communications adhering to the standards set forth by the industry; conducting primary and secondary research to aid in campaign development; understanding the legal, ethical and cross-cultural issues that pertain to public relations campaigns; and, measuring and analyzing the impact of strategic communication campaigns that include stakeholder-specific strategies and tactics (e.g. social media, earned media) through the use of various platforms and tools. Tulane’s School of Professional Advancement awards the Bachelor of Arts in Public Relations following the successful completion of 120 credits, including 36 credits in the major. Successful completion of an upper level review is required to advance in the program and is typically done prior to advancing to 3000 and 4000 level courses. Blocks Each Digital Design track consists of "blocks" showing the required order of all coursework. All courses within each block must be completed before you may move on to the next block. For example, all courses in Block 1 must be completed before any courses may be taken in Block 2, and so on. Courses within a block may be take at the same time. Reviews Due to the highly demanding nature of this program, students are assessed for knowledge and preparedness for further courses after Block 3. The review includes a portfolio review and a questionnaire, both of them evaluated and scored by faculty. A score of 80 or higher constitutes passing the review, which means that the student is ready to proceed in the program. Students who do not pass may resubmit their materials the following semester; a letter will be provided to each student with specific recommendations for how to improve their work. Students who fail the review twice may be asked to take a semester of leave to work on a portfolio, or to change majors. Major Requirements Course List Course ID Title Credits Block 1 9 MDES 1100 Introduction to Mass Media MDES 1120 Media Writing elective Block 2 12 MDES 2200 Principles of Public Relations MDES 2110 Media Ethics & Equity MDES 2210 Media Research elective Block 3 12 MDES 2120 Media Law MDES 3210 Digital Public Relations MDES 3240 PR Case Studies elective Advancement Review Block 4 9 MDES 3220 PR Writing elective elective Block 5 6 MDES 3230 Media Relations elective Block 6 6 MDES 4210 Portfolio: Media & Design MDES 4150 Capstone: Media & Design Total Credit Hours 54

No content found under the specified ID.