Sustainable Real Estate Development Certificate (Graduate) Overview Requirements The SRED Certificate program gives students the basic tools and knowledge to navigate the demands of being part of a development team and contribute with solutions that provide a lasting, positive impact on the project, its users and surrounding community. This certificate can supplement both our Master of Architecture degrees, and our Master of Preservation Studies degree. Architects are at the forefront of design decisions in projects. They must be integrated with the development team at large. Essential knowledge of finance tools, as well as understanding the environmental and social impact of development projects are crucial to successfully participating in today’s projects small and large. Preservationists must also be able to engage the development team on their own terms, articulating the value of integrating long-term sustainable solutions into projects. Today, over 54% of the world’s population lives in cities and this number is expected to grow to 66% in the next few decades. As urban life becomes more complex, the need for providing sustainable solutions for the built environment is more imperative than ever. We define sustainability as development that addresses immediate needs while reducing long-term stresses. Students who earn the SRED Certificate will be able to: Understand basic concepts of real estate finance needed for determining a project’s viability. Understand sustainable design and construction principles. Identify real estate finance products that can be applied to a project. Understand the urban environment and its relationship to the political, economic, environmental and cultural context. Applications Applications must be submitted by the second semester of the student’s second year. Contact the MSRED Program Director for additional information. Plan of Study Grid Year 1 Fall Credit Hours SRED 6230 Real Estate Finance 4 Credit Hours 4 Summer Session 1 SRED 6100 Intro-Real Est Finance & Econ 3 SRED 6110 Introduction to Sustainable Architecture & Design 3 Credit Hours 6 Summer Session 2 SRED 6130 Intro to Sustainable Urbanism 3 SRED 6140 Intro to Finance Products 3 SRED 6400 Urban Field Study 0 Credit Hours 6 Total Credit Hours 16

Plan of Study Grid Year 1 Fall Credit Hours SRED 6230 Real Estate Finance 4 Credit Hours 4 Summer Session 1 SRED 6100 Intro-Real Est Finance & Econ 3 SRED 6110 Introduction to Sustainable Architecture & Design 3 Credit Hours 6 Summer Session 2 SRED 6130 Intro to Sustainable Urbanism 3 SRED 6140 Intro to Finance Products 3 SRED 6400 Urban Field Study 0 Credit Hours 6 Total Credit Hours 16