TIDR 1090Who Dat, Fan Up & Geaux(1)Founded in 1718, the city of New Orleans has a long and rich history with sports. From the rise of social class-driven sports such as rowing and billiards to the New Orleans Saints’ heroic revival of the city post-Hurricane Katrina, sports has been as integral to the area as food, music, and Mardi Gras. Sports have made an enduring impact on the social world in which we all live. It is a taken for granted aspect of our everyday lives – whether that entails watching “Sportscenter” or noticing that every single major newspaper contains a “Sports” section that is as long if not longer than any other section. Yet there is more to sport than just what we see on a daily basis. In this course, we will explore general sports-related topics and examine actual case studies related to New Orleans’ sports scene. More than simply ‘talking sports,’ students will study issues from political, economic and social viewpoints and also gain an understanding of the rich sports heritage found here in New Orleans. Readings and discussions, field trips, and guest speakers will aid students to understand both historical accounts and modern-day subjects associated with sports such as governmental involvement, public financing, and community development. Students will participate in a mandatory service learning component with TBD. Their after-school programs promote development in boys and girls through activities that build character, cultivate new skills, and create a sense of belonging – in this case a place where kids can express themselves, play together and get fit. By participating in activities with NFL Youth Education Town students will deepen their understanding of the political, economic, and social ramifications of sports on a local level by making correlations to sports and its impacts on the city’s youth, infrastructure, civic pride, crime reduction efforts, poverty eradication, and other areas, and gain an awareness of their role as a citizen in the city of New Orleans.